This is Jocobodcast number 102.
With echo Charles and me, Jocobo willing.
Good evening, Echo.
Good evening.
And we are rolling into some Q&A from the Interwebs.
Sure.
So let's go.
Right to it.
Jocobo.
Is there ever good time to use an ultimatum?
Hmm.
That's a great question.
And I think the answer is actually I think what everyone thinks about the answer.
I think it's pretty self-evident.
I think a lot of people will agree with it.
Okay.
So is there ever a good time to use an ultimatum?
I think sometimes there is.
But it's seldom.
Hmm.
It's actually very seldom.
But when enough is truly enough.
Sure.
Then you got to draw the line and you got to hold the line.
Right.
So you got to make an ultimatum.
One thing that is extremely critical is that you should never make a line.
You can ultimatum that you won't or can't keep.
Right.
Let's keep.
Don't.
The loft.
If you say it, do it.
And what's interesting from a job perspective?
So like in the workplace perspective.
Let's say up the chain of command.
Up the chain of command, it's not good.
Right.
So let's say you're my boss and I come in and say echo.
I want to raise.
I want to buy this Friday or I'm out of here.
Right.
That's an ultimatum.
And that means I'm trying to hold you hostage.
Most people do not like being held hostage.
So my chances of actually supporting what you're trying to make happen are very small.
Because I'm actually mad at you.
I don't want to support you.
You're a big critical guy because you press record and you made some videos for me.
You know what I mean?
It's like that.
But you're throwing an ultimatum at me?
That's where we're at.
The we couldn't have a conversation.
We couldn't come to an agreement.
So you're going to walk into me on the boss.
I just reversed rules.
So you're walking to me on the boss.
You're going to say, joko, I want to raise and I want it now or I am out of here on Friday.
That's my ultimatum.
What are you doing?
Are you building a relationship with me?
No.
Are you giving any room to negotiate or you giving yourself any room to maneuver?
You're not.
You're not going to be a self-ennewatum maneuver.
So that one generally doesn't work very well.
Now if you have another job offer that someone has put in front of you, that's legit
and it's good and it's solid and you come into me and say, hey, joko, I've got another
job offer.
They wanted to answer by Friday.
Here's what they're going to pay me.
I'm not.
This is enough thread.
I'm not trying to be a jerk.
I'm being straight up with you.
But if you don't give me what I want by Friday, I'm going to have to leave and go because
I got to improve my future.
That's a, hey man, that sounds like a great deal of working for them.
Go.
Right?
But that's an old-to-madeum, but it's a rational one.
Because you actually have a backup and you actually are trying to be straight forward
with me.
So that's an old-to-madeum, but it's a logical one.
Now down the chain of command, people don't like it.
Old-to-madeum's either.
For instance, you know, echo if you don't have this project done by Friday, you're
fired.
So now I put a big old-to-madeum on you.
And you don't like that anymore than the boss.
People don't like having old-to-madeum's put on it.
So what you really do, if you have to use old-to-madeum's down the chain of command,
you should check your leadership real real quick.
Because you've made some mistakes, right?
People don't understand the deadlines.
People don't understand what it is you want them to do.
People don't understand why they're doing what they're doing.
There's all kinds of things that they don't understand if you have to start throwing
old-to-madeum's around.
As a boss.
So really, if you find yourself using old-to-madeum's, then you need to check your leadership.
Now that being said, if you, if I've talked to you, if I've coached you, if I've
counseled you, if I've done a written statement on you and told you exactly what it is
that I need echo-to-do.
And now we've passed the point of no return.
I go, okay, echo.
Here's what I asked you to do.
You didn't do it.
This is the old-to-madeum.
If you don't start making three videos a week, you are not going to be here anymore.
And you'd say, you'd either say, okay, well, I'm going to do it.
Or screwdriver, he's a jerk.
I'm out of here.
Either way, I've moved forward because you weren't doing it before.
And that's sort of, I know that, that example is, yeah, kind of.
It's close to home.
So, ultimatums, be very, very careful.
Make sure if you're going to use it, it's got to be real.
You've got to enforce it and check yourself.
Don't, don't get yourself in a position where you can't maneuver anymore.
That's the biggest.
That to me, that's the biggest point.
You never want to take away your ability to move maneuver.
You don't want to do that.
Yeah, it makes sense.
And it feels like, you know, it's just how you kind of set it to me.
So that first one, where the tone has a lot to do with it, yeah, how you're legitimate
logical, ultimatum.
Right.
It seemed like it wasn't the first one.
The first one, give me the answer.
I'm out of here, kind of thing.
And then the second, your second example is, it's like, hey, you know, it feels like someone
did that to me either way, up or down.
I feel like it would still maintain the relationship.
Let's say it worked out.
And it was like, okay, whatever, you got the raise or whatever.
And if you sit in that crazy tone or whatever, like that real fed up tone, yeah, you're
still like, okay, cool, we worked it out.
I got what I want, but like, but we know we've dinged the relationship.
Yeah, it's dinged.
And we don't want to be dinging or relationships.
We want to be building those things.
Yeah.
And I think a lot of times people like, they'll ding the relationship.
And then they'll just move on like nothing, but meanwhile, other persons like, hey,
no.
Don't forget what you said to me and how you said that.
That last week, time heals the wounds, but it doesn't remove the scars.
Yes.
Yeah, I feel like, yeah, I feel like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Next question.
Graduated high school, crushed it, straight is.
Boom.
Help my classmates was kind of kind and helpful and expected them to be.
Meanwhile, they put me down, mocked me, never loved me.
In a room with 30 people, I was always alone.
Intervoiced tells me to go after the past.
Secret revenge, keep looking at their profiles.
Profiles, a online profile.
Yeah, social media.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Should I go?
Now, he's got a series of questions here.
Yeah, should I go after them and try to fix the past, either by revenge or else?
Should I, should I remove them from social media and leave the, the Facebook group?
Should I attend the reunion?
Why have they even been in my life?
Okay, so let's break those down.
Number one, should I go after them and try to fix the past, either by revenge or
something else?
They answer that in my opinion, is no man who cares their high school kids move on,
get on with your life.
disagree agree agree.
Okay, that one to me is pretty straightforward.
Don't worry about these humans.
I actually had a couple conversations with my oldest daughters.
Haven't had this one with my son yet, but my older daughters, which is, hey, look, these
people that are around right now that you think are so important.
Hey, nice school.
They're not, you know, some of them might be, might have some lifelong friends from high
school.
I get that, but these people that are not nice to you, you won't be thinking about them.
So I don't, I'm not sure how old this individual is, but he's got a couple more years
before he won't be thinking about these people anymore.
So just get there earlier.
Question two, should I remove them from social media and leave this Facebook group?
Okay, this is a little bit tricky in my opinion.
First of all, if you can stay, if you can keep them on social media, but ignore them
completely, just leave them alone.
Just leave it into totally ignore them.
Because when you leave them or whatever, you're kind of, aren't you kind of making
this scene?
Yes.
Okay, I just want to make sure.
Okay, well yeah, like when you unfriend no more than whatever.
Which didn't you and I have some situations with you?
Yes, we did.
Yeah, actually.
Okay, so I know that I, why, why, who unfriend did you?
My wife.
Yep.
Okay, so you did it.
Well, no, no, no, I didn't even know how to do it.
But I, I figured it out.
No, I didn't.
So I didn't ever have social media until two years ago, but all of a sudden I saw Echo, friends
with my wife.
That's it.
We, we, she's like showing me something and she's, and I see Echo.
Why are you friends with people that, why are you friends with people that I know?
On, you're a cook on friend on that.
And I didn't even know it was a big deal.
I just thought, you know, hey, that means.
And, and then I didn't realize it was a big deal.
It's a big deal.
I'm a friend.
Yeah, unfriend.
I thought you did it purposefully knowing it's a big deal, but not understanding that.
It's even a bigger deal than, you know, like, I mean, unfriend, I'm as a joke.
That was like, it was totally your personality at that time.
Oh, you thought I did that to you?
Yeah, like, as a joke, like, unfriend.
You don't say something to me, like, immediately or was it, did a month go by where
I didn't make a joke about it?
I forget.
So, so it is kind of making a scene.
If you, if you unfriend this person or you leave the group, then you're just creating
a little firestorm.
But I will say this, if you can't keep yourself from checking on them, then you might
have to do that.
So try it for a couple of weeks, just say, I'm not looking at them.
Yeah.
Let them go, just leave them.
If you can't do that, then delete them and leave the group or whatever.
So, number three, should I attend the reunion?
My answer to that is negative.
Don't, why would you? these people are negative.
They bring back negative memories.
They didn't treat you well.
Why would you, you don't need to move on?
Again, keyword, I think, move on.
And then the last question is, why have they even been in my life?
Well, I think just like anything else.
Bad, that happens in life.
The things that are bad that happen in life can either teach you or break you.
And you got to decide what you want them to do.
I vote that you, you allow it to teach you.
I vote that you learn from these people that you learn how to forget about the past, that
you learn how to ignore people that are negative, that you learn to control your vengeful
ideas.
That you learn to move on into the future where you're going to meet better people and
better times you'd be at.
That's what I would recommend.
Don't worry about these people from the past.
They're caught up in this weird world.
High school.
This is high school.
They were caught up in high school world.
Only about high school.
Get into the world.
Yeah.
Right?
Big ten.
I got, I've had one daughter that now graduated from high school.
I got two kids in high school right now.
Drama, there's drama.
Actually, believe it or not, there hasn't been a lot of drama with my kids.
Yeah.
Not a lot of high school drama.
That doesn't surprise me.
But I see it.
It does happen.
Oh, yeah.
And I remember the drama.
I'd say it.
I guess I don't know.
It's been a long time since high school for me personally.
But yeah, man, I think that's life.
You know, high school is drama.
Me too.
A bunch of kids.
Not knowing nothing.
Is there more drama in high school than there is in life?
Maybe it's because it stuck together.
Yeah.
Like you.
Like you're stuck.
It depends on your life.
Like if you just consider a typical high school versus my life, yeah, way more in high
schools.
Drama, man.
I mean, you're drama.
That's it.
And you're not in really job.
Really?
Yeah.
They're all high school.
All the way, even this guy, obviously.
You know, so it's going to feel like way more than it is for sure.
But you know, when you, the, the further you go along in life,
the more you realize that this means less, these types of things anyway,
when you consider it, high school is really just for learning.
Sure, you learn like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, what things to do, you know what I just thought is,
is what's interesting about this is if you're looking back on high school,
either with fond memories or with negative memories,
you feel way, it's not a great thing.
Because you could be like, on Carico from Napoleon Dynamite.
Right?
Living back his high school football games.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And he's wishing he made that pass.
And you know what I mean?
One of the state championship or whatever.
Yeah, you get that.
That's not good.
Right?
That means you're stuck in high school.
You peaked in high school.
Yeah.
If you're looking back at the negative things, same thing.
Yeah, same thing.
Who, who?
No, move forward.
Yeah.
In his defense though, obviously, he just graduated.
That's what he's like.
So, his life really is this really, you know, it's too new.
It's like, you know, someone's doing good stuff.
It's going to happen, brother.
Yeah.
Yeah, probably the social media thing though.
See this.
Because there's little levels of like, unfriending.
What are you?
You can unfollow someone.
I'm assuming this is Facebook.
I don't know.
There's, you know, there's so many.
You could be talking about other stuff.
But on Facebook, you can still remain friend, but just unfollow them.
So you won't get all their stuff.
Do they know that?
I don't think so.
So they're not.
I'm sure many people have unfollowed me and I don't know that.
I've never gotten the alert or whatever.
I would say leave the group fully.
Oh, yeah.
You're giving me the virus.
You're advice more than me because I don't understand as much as you do.
I don't understand the Facebook group thing.
Yeah.
I mean, depends on many people.
It seems like we're going to like a scene.
I don't like to make a scene.
Yeah.
So I'd be like, well, no, I'm just going to ignore it.
Yeah, I don't think leaving the group is a scene.
If it is, I mean, obviously, depends on how many people in the group is.
Last people in the group, the more the scene is going to be, or if he's always
posting, if he's the head of the group or something like this, then yeah.
You know, how in the past there was etiquette schools, I went to, I went to etiquette classes
when I went to Oscar Cannon at school.
That's cool.
The floor and they teach you which knife to use.
Yeah.
She's tall that stuff and they teach you things.
For instance, you might not know this.
If you take a bite of food and there's something in that bite of food that you don't
want to eat, a bone, whatever, the way to properly get it out of your mouth is to use
your fork, put it on the fork and put it back down on the plate.
So like, yeah, okay, got you.
They would say the same.
So that's the type of thing.
Yeah, there should be a class.
Or we're going to a point where people are going to need a class on social media etiquette.
Yeah, actually, it's not a bad idea.
You should teach it.
All right.
Let's move on.
Thanks, man.
Yeah.
Yeah, that is cool.
Move on, dude.
Move on, brother.
Yeah.
Move on.
Let's move on from that question.
There it is.
You know, that's like, that's like, you know, that's we focused on social media, but that's
just about everything, right?
Anything that you're caught up in.
Yeah.
That's dragging you down.
Just move on.
Yeah.
Whether it's a girl, whether it's the job you should have had, whether it's the investment
you should have made, whether it's the house you didn't buy that you should have all those
things.
Yeah.
Move on, man.
It's gone.
Move on.
Yeah.
It seems like high school is really common when you know like the old classic story of the
person who got bullied in high school and then go back to the vintage.
Yeah.
You know, like that kind of stuff.
But yeah, the more and this is what it feels like to.
I don't know.
I'm not everyone.
But the more you do for yourself after high school.
The last high school is going to mean.
First of all, like this isn't going to any of how they say, well, uncle Rico.
Man, yeah, he, he, you selling top of where.
Yeah.
And it wasn't working out good for him.
He high school was still a big deal to.
Yeah.
Like they always talk about high school football or what they're just.
And there's guys like that for sure.
Um, then you can, it's kind of an indicator.
You know that.
Oh, you know, you might not be doing much now, you know, especially if they're like 40 years
and like that.
Check.
All right.
Next wish.
I'm thinking about starting due to in my MMA gym.
But the instructor is a brown belt.
Should I go train with him or look for a black belt?
Well, if you're out of MMA gym, they have
a brown belt.
That's awesome.
I turn with a brown belt.
I think he's probably really good.
I think it's probably fight oriented because it's in a fight to fight gym, which is good
in my opinion.
And you know, though, the fact of the matter is, and we've said this before, brown belt,
purple belt, black belt.
There's good teachers in all those.
Blue belt, you know, borderline, really.
You can learn some good fundamentals from our solid blue belt, though.
But also there's some black belts that are not good teachers.
And there's some purple belts that are phenomenal teachers.
So yeah, go train.
Yeah.
I think that's pretty simple question.
Yep.
Yeah, the, you know, how you just said, like some purple belts are great, teach
to the, so the belt usually, for the most part, just indicates the, the, the vast, like
the knowledge, you know.
So it's given that they're a good teacher.
So yeah, if it's a brown belt shoot, that's a lot of knowledge.
And just given that he's all right, more better.
Teacher, that's going to be legit.
And there is actually blue belt as well.
Yeah, I shouldn't even say that.
There's some blue belt set are really good teachers.
Yeah.
Although it does, you know, you get a purple belt teacher versus a blue belt teacher,
and they're good teachers.
Both of them, of course, you're going to want the, because he's going to have more knowledge
than purple belt.
So you know, blue belt.
And most cases.
Yeah, yeah.
It is.
Yeah.
But if you're just starting, you can, pray, you're just going to be like a sponge.
If someone doesn't even know what, you know what's interesting, you could probably
barely tell if you're a white belt, and you roll with a purple belt in the black
belt, you wouldn't go to tell the, yes.
You, all you know is you got your ass.
What?
Yeah.
That's what you know.
That's all you know.
You don't know how easy it was for them, because it's the same level for both, neither
one of those people's trying hard against a white belt.
Yeah.
And yeah.
And if they know how to teach, like I said, he's a instructor.
He's the instructor.
Yeah.
He's going to be fine.
In fact, that's way more common than you think.
I mean, we're in San Diego.
Yeah.
Even in San Diego though.
There's a brown belt instructors for sure.
Yeah.
And they're good too.
And especially if you're just starting, yeah, man.
Good.
Do that.
And yeah, just like I said, though, sometimes the black belt instructor, he'll be
good at rolling.
He'll be good at Jiu-Jitsu and he can win tournaments, but he can't really instruct that
good or they, or you get like situations where, I mean, I wouldn't say it's super common,
but it's there.
For sure, is, you know, you're really the expression, cross the knowledge, right?
It's like you've been a black belt for so long or anything, right?
Just so good at something that you forget what it's like to be a beginner.
So you kind of, you know, you might skip over some details that are kind of critical
if you're a beginner.
You know, you just kind of, you're subconscious, just assumes that this person knows
a certain amount of things, you know?
Kind of, you can get that.
Like that's, I think, a lot of times with Jams up at the really advanced.
Dean's watching Andy and Noah Raw, we were doing some rounds with Andy and Noah
tucked his foot underneath the far arm on an arm walk from a cross side like a regular
arm walk and Noah's tucking his foot under there.
And Dean says, Dean's, you know, hey, that's a really good detail to who taught you that.
You know, I was like, I taught him.
And he was like, I taught him and know what that's something that Dean taught me.
And I don't know who taught Noah, but it's just, that's the type of detail that you're
talking about where that is a small thing.
You got to be in Jiu-Jitsu for what?
You got to get a lot of other things right before someone says, hey, when you're
on walking someone on the far side, put your, put your, who's basically underneath their
arm to secure their shoulder a little bit better.
Yeah.
That's deep.
So there's those kind of details.
There's another thing where I had a, a finish for Dean or Dean was teaching me an arm walk
finish and I would try it and I was trying it and I would try it and I would try it and
it would never work.
I tried it on him 50 times and finally one day he says, hey, when you do that move,
put the pressure here and set it here.
The next time I did it to him work.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
And then one little detail.
Yeah.
It's the same thing happened the other day with Andy.
I was going with Andy and we were doing arm walk escapes and he said, hey, you're putting
your pressure here.
He showed me where I was putting the pressure.
He said, put it here.
I don't know what.
The next time I did it to him, he's like, that hurts so bad.
Yeah.
So it's weird.
It's a little details that again, the better the instructor is, the, the more details
you're going to get and most, well, what's important about this is until you are get to a
certain level, you, those details don't even mean anything to you.
Yeah.
Because you, you can't worry about where you're putting some little detail on an arm walk
when you do how to do the arm walk.
Yeah.
You get to be pretty damn good at the arm walk before you start looking at the little
tiny details.
Yeah.
And then that's like the, that was actually going to be part of the point where you get
a black belt super advanced level instructor, but he's not necessarily that good at being
a teacher.
He'll start teaching those details and on stuff and focusing in a ways, whoa, you just skipped
over the part to teach them how to do the actual arm walk.
But he's like, kind of subconsciously, they'll be like, he'll, the course of knowledge says
that it's kind of just assumed.
This is good for the judge.
It's you journey.
I used to say this when I'm teaching you a judiciary move.
Let's say there's 10 things that you have to do to make the judiciary move work.
I can teach you five of them.
The other five you have to figure out because it's where you're putting your weight
and it's where you're putting your balance.
Dean might be able to teach you seven.
Maybe if you take a different class and he will teach you an eight one.
But there's things that you have to figure out on your own on top of the things that
you can be shown.
Yeah.
That's where you got to roll.
Big time.
You got to roll.
Because that's the only way you figure out if it actually works or not and what little adjustment
you have to make.
Yeah.
Fully.
Especially if you have a good instructor they can see it too.
You know like you you know when you drill something or when you're doing the technique
just with your partner and stuff you're like okay yeah good that's good technique and
then when you're moving and trying to defend or whatever it's like I don't know what
I'm doing wrong.
It's not working.
And really obviously it's the answer is yeah because he's not letting you do it but
you know someone like an instructor can look and see like oh look you're letting him do
this or whatever you're forgetting to do this.
Yeah.
I agree with you go train with the brown belt guy.
Go train.
Yeah.
But if you're not learning nothing then you can make that evaluation but the fact that it's
a brown belt.
Yeah we learn a ton.
You'd be learning a ton given that.
For sure.
Next question.
You talk about playing the game quote unquote to win but what about people that play
the game to win for themselves and how do I defeat them?
That's a good good question and it hit me.
Yeah.
When I saw that question I was oh that's a good point and that's a good there's a very
important distinction there because I'm always saying play the game.
Yeah.
You got to play the game.
You got to build the relationships with the boss.
You got to learn what they like and you got to tow the party line.
You got to do the little things.
You got to support the corporate headquarters or the boss or the man.
Right or whatever entity is up in that ivory tower.
I want you to play the game.
Get them on your side and the reason I say to do those things is that's so you can get
more control so that people ask your opinion so that you get listened to.
So that perhaps you get promoted which is good.
But the reason you're doing all those things the reason that you're playing the game
is to help your team accomplish the mission.
That's what you are trying to do.
It's to help your team accomplish the mission.
Now the other side of that is what this question is about.
People that are playing the game for personal gain.
They play the games that they can get listened to so they can drive their personal agenda.
So they can get promoted and they want to get promoted so that they can abuse their
power.
Maybe that abuse of power is just working less.
Maybe it's making other people do the crap jobs.
Whatever the case may be, they've got an agenda and they're going to try and get promoted.
They can take care of themselves.
And that is not why I tell you to play the game.
That's not why I play the game.
I definitely play the game and I played the win.
But I played because I wanted my squad or my platoon or my task unit or my training command
to be able to better accomplish our mission.
That's why I played the game.
Now there is a secondary benefit of playing the game and that is that you could possibly
get promoted earlier.
You could get praise from the boss that looks good on your record and all those things
can happen when you're playing the game.
But that's just like collateral sort of fringe benefits.
But that's not why you're playing the game.
You play the game to help the team win and when the team wins you win.
Which also makes the team win again.
So it's like a positive cycle because you start developing a good reputation and you get
more leeway from the boss than more leeway.
You get from the boss, the more you have the ability to make maneuvers on the battlefield,
the more you can maneuver on the battlefield, the more offensive you can be the more
offensive you can be the more you win.
You get more ability to move more because your boss is giving you even more room to maneuver.
So it's a cycle.
It's a good positive cycle.
Now when you have someone that's on the team that's playing the game for themselves,
first of all, no one likes that person.
Everyone can see that person.
No one likes them and they believe me the military.
The military has unbelievable people that play the game for the best possible reasons to
help that button and help the mission and help succeed.
There's also plenty of people in the military and in every different line of work.
There's plenty of people that play the game because they want to look it out for themselves.
Look it out for number one.
Isn't that the expression?
They're looking out for number one.
There's plenty of people and I dealt with people like that all the time.
And what did I do?
I used to advantage and I'll tell you what, I would get in their head.
And what I would do is I would make them think that the best way for them to win for
themselves personally was for the team to win.
I would get that into their head because a lot of times they missed that point.
They're looking out for themselves.
They're not worried about the team and I would get them thinking that they're going
to look the best if the team wins.
Hey, if you really want to look good, the best way you can get promoters if we look good.
You know, if the team does great.
If you get us the gear we want, the equipment we want, they're training that we need,
that's the best way you're going to look awesome because we're going to succeed more
and that's going to make you look good.
And I'm of course I'm going to be more tactful than I'm not saying it like that.
But I'm saying it.
Getting a little bit of a word of getting them, getting the messaging is there.
I'm going to be saying things, hey, our boss doesn't like our boss doesn't like leaders
that complain.
Right.
You know, I could tell the boss he doesn't like complainers.
You know what I mean?
Little things like that, right?
Hey, the boss likes to hear the truth about stuff.
He wants to know, you know what I mean?
Little things like that.
And you know, here's the thing, that person, that person might get the promotion.
Because what you've done is you've helped them act correctly actually.
And there's a chance, a decent chance, a good chance even, that they carry that forward.
They realize that, hey, the best way to play the game is to help the team.
And the best way to look good is to help that is to make the team good and succeed at
the mission.
And it's really, you know, one of the classic cases, then we'll get into ownership a little
bit.
But if something goes wrong, right, the person that's looking out for themselves blames
everyone else.
And so that's a challenge, right?
Because once you start blaming, once that boss starts blaming everyone, then the whole
team starts blaming each other.
So how do you fix that?
Well, it's, we've talked about it a million times.
You know, you step up and say, hey, you know what boss is my fault?
And boss, because that's right, it's your fault.
And there's a, there's a good chance that they recognize how positive that is.
And it may take a while.
And it may never happen because some people are just savages, right?
Some people are just complete.
They only care about themselves.
They only care about the next promotion and getting the next award and getting the next
bit of recognition.
There's people like that.
They're, they're horrible.
They're horrible.
They exist.
But they're pretty small.
Most people, if they see, hey, this, this is working for this guy.
It can work for me too, and that starts to spread.
And the other thing that happens, I think, is if someone's just a flagrant self-promoter,
you might get them one promotion because you were there to kind of make them look good.
But the next time around, they're going to get seen.
They're going to get found out.
They're going to people are going to realize what kind of person they are.
And that's where it catches up with them.
So you keep playing the game.
You keep, you keep working hard.
Don't worry about them.
And actually do your best to help them out.
The person that's like self-promoting.
You're the best to help them out.
If they're the boss, make them look good.
I always want to make my boss look good.
Yeah.
It's going to help you in the long run.
It's hard sometimes.
Yeah.
It's hard to do sometimes.
Yep.
Are you going to get some of the way sometimes?
Got to put that ego in check?
Because what's more important?
Because if you're my boss, Echo, and you're doing this just to make yourself look good,
if I then undermine you.
Well, and now we don't accomplish the mission as well, I'm actually a bad person because
I didn't do my best to accomplish the mission.
Right?
We didn't look good.
I'm not worried about how we look, but we failed in our mission.
When we didn't do our mission to the best of our ability.
So no, I'm not going to let that happen.
You want to look great?
Cool.
I want to make you look great because I want us to look great new in our mission because
that's what's important to me.
And if some of the collateral damage of that is that you look great even though you're
a jerk and I get you promoted, that's okay.
Because eventually you're going to get found out.
Or you're going to learn to be a better person and to support the team.
And that's how you got promoted near and realize that and you'll become a good leader.
Yeah.
I agree with that one.
Like I always have where people can see that too.
You know what they can see.
You know, like if your boss is like a self promoter or whatever.
And you have it in your head, I understand.
I understand this because I've been in a situation where I'm like shoot, I feel inside
that I don't want to make an effort to make them look good kind of thing because it's
like he doesn't deserve it and the thing.
And what?
Like what I'm going to make him look good and now everyone's going to think that he looks
good kind of thing.
But then when you really think about it, another not.
They see that kind of thing.
Yeah.
You're right.
And the same goes for you.
Like if you're like, you know, if you're just focusing on the positive stuff, you know,
you know, like you're, you know, what do you just, you know, if you don't have anything nice
to say, don't say it at all.
If you're really doing that, like people notice that too.
They're like, man, that guy's like really positive.
You're really focusing on this, you know, kind of thing.
Like people see it.
And this doesn't mean you're just Mr. Positive, show good coat and everything.
And it's not, it's not what I'm talking about that.
But you are not focusing on the negative instead of saying, oh, we're all about this.
You say, you know what?
We got some deficiency here.
Here's what I'm going to do to fix them.
Yeah.
How simple is that?
And the point is, people, they see.
They see, don't think that, you know, like you're going to help, you know, make this guy look
good and they're just going to, they're going to not see it.
And they're just going to fall for the, he is trick or something.
Ah, they see it.
They see it.
Most of the time.
That example that you said about playing to there, you, or whatever, where you're like,
hey, you know, you know, you, you're going to look really good if you're helping.
So you ever seen the movie Moana?
I saw three minutes of it.
Oh, see that you go, she does, so the guy, the main guy is the, the demigod.
The name is Molly.
And played by the rock, by the way, twin childhood.
Great movie by the way.
She does him like that.
She's like, hey, let's, they got to go do this mission, you know, for restore the heart,
you know, whatever, it's long story.
But, and he's like, you know, whatever, reluctant.
And he's like, she's like, hey, you'll be a hero.
Again, and he's like, I'm all right.
Yeah, hero.
She's like, well, no.
No, for a while, you know, you haven't done anything lately.
But if you do this, and you'll be the hero to everyone.
And yeah, and of course he does it.
Of course, BAM.
It's good.
It works.
It is proof on Moana.
Moana.
Next session.
I have to say that in a very competitive environment, extreme ownership can be used
by your enemies or the people that want your position.
When you take ownership over all faults of your team members, you guys become, you
guys become better and get healthier, healthier attitude.
But that takes time.
So until your team improves and start to get better results, your opponents will take
those tens of, it was my fault and present them to your boss as proof that yeah, this
guy is not good or at least not confident enough and looks weak.
It's not my case.
For me, it worked to great, but I've seen it happening to few colleagues who just didn't
have good team members and they took their extreme ownership for weakness and just took
advantage of that.
Okay.
So what we've got here is what he's saying is extreme ownership.
If you're taking extreme ownership of things, your enemies can actually take advantage
of that.
And in this guy's case, right?
Like in the earlier stages of it.
Yeah.
And he said, well, actually, he says that for him, it's worked great.
But that he's seen some of his compoders who have started to take ownership and they're
they've got weak team and the team, what does he say here?
What's the word to use this?
They didn't have good team members and they took their extreme ownership for weakness
and took advantage of it.
Okay.
So first of all, out of the gate, if you have weak or bad team members, that is the first
thing the leader needs to take ownership of.
Right?
If you have truly weak and bad team members, then you need to either train them or
coach them or get rid of them.
That's the first thing.
So if you've got backstabbing bad team members that are looking to claw you down as the
leader, you've got a problem with those people.
Then you need to fix that problem.
Number one.
So let's just start with that.
Number two.
And this is, this is there's two kinds of parts of this.
There's an insecurity, level of insecurity and there's a level of, or a matter of perception.
The insecurity is the thing that says, if I say this is my fault and everyone up and down
the chain, it's going to say fire him.
Fire him.
It's his fault.
But I want you to think about how that's actually perceived.
If what you do is, let's take the other example is what you do is you blame everyone else.
If that's your attitude, if you're attitude is it wasn't my fault, it was his fault.
It was her fault.
It was their fault.
It was not me.
I'm just the person in charge.
It's not me.
It's not my fault.
It's my team's fault.
I'm just the person in charge.
It's not my fault.
Think about that.
Whenever you're placing blame, if you're a leader and you're placing blame on your team,
what you're saying is, hey, it's not my fault.
It's my team's fault.
I'm just the leader here.
I'm not the one out there in the field doing the work.
I'm not the one that's making those decisions.
I'm not the one that's interacting with customers.
I'm not the one that's doing that.
So this isn't my fault.
It's my team's fault.
Well meanwhile, guess who's in charge of the team?
You are.
So the minute that you started saying it wasn't my fault and who's for a lay and everyone
else is fault, that if you think about how you look to your boss, it's laughable.
You look like an idiot.
You don't look like a good leader.
So don't fall for it.
And you know what?
I'm actually not saying that you'll never get fired if you take ownership.
Because you know what?
If you do something that's really bad, there's absolutely a chance you get fired.
If you do something that cost a bunch of money or was immoral or illegal or you covered
something up or your team covered something up or you did something that was truly wrong.
And you take ownership of it.
Yeah, you might still get fired.
You know what?
That happens in the Navy.
In the Navy, if your ship runs around or like lately there's been some collisions
on these ships and all of it.
I think a layman I might talk about those at some point in the podcast.
But the captain of the ship is done.
It doesn't matter if you was on the ship or not.
He could be because just because the ships at sea, the captain might have had to flunk
to another ship to talk to the Admiral.
If his ship crashes, he's done.
It doesn't matter if he's there or not.
He's responsible for the training.
He's responsible for the actions.
He's responsible for everything that's happening on that ship.
And he's getting fired.
And also, if he did do something wrong, yeah, and he takes ownership of it, doesn't
matter.
He's getting fired.
So I'm not saying you're never going to get fired.
But generally, generally, and this is, when I say generally, this is the vast majority of
the time.
This is 99% of the time.
If you take ownership, you don't look like a weak boss.
You look like a strong boss that is taking ownership of the problems that is going
to get the problem solved.
I say this, I'll learn no further again.
And as always, you don't just have to own the problems you have to own the solutions
to the problems too.
So this is the situation here.
You got this guy.
If you're in charge of a bad team, and you're taking ownership, the bad team is what
you have to fix.
You have to fix it.
You have to train them.
You have to coach them.
You have to mentor them.
You have to do all those things.
And if you can't get them to get on board with the program, then you've got to get rid of
them.
Or get rid of that one or two bad people that are causing the infraction and causing that
cancer to spread.
Get rid of them.
Set the example.
Promote somebody that's hungry and young and wants to get after it.
So you've got to take ownership of the team, the problems, the weak people on the team.
You've got to take ownership of the solutions and get them solved.
It seems like, and I kind of noticed this from the beginning, that we need to take.
I was going to cut you off with, I have to talk about this before.
Sometimes people say, they think if they say, I'll take ownership of this, then the
problems, then they're safe.
That's exactly what we're saying.
Yeah.
That is not the case.
Yeah, just because you say, hey, this is my fault.
It's my fault.
I'm taking ownership of this.
That doesn't mean the problem is solved.
There's a problem.
You have to say, yes, there's a problem here.
I'm taking ownership of it.
My fault because I'm in charge and this is what we're going to do to fix it.
And then you have to actually go and fix it.
There's the point.
Right there.
Yeah.
As if you come to me 12 times, you say, hey, Jokeway, we didn't get the podcast out.
Because I forgot to hit record.
Hey, that's my bust.
That's my bust.
Okay.
Well, the hate from now on here's what we're doing.
I'm going to make sure that we have this things in place and I hooked up a light
and it's going to, if the thing isn't recording, the studio is going to go duck.
I don't know if you remember this because this might be just the way you are.
But when we went to remember, we went to the where do we go?
We went last trip.
We went driving.
We went to, oh, Charlie Plum.
Yeah.
I'm pretty sure it's really close.
I can't remember what we were looking for either the hotel or the place or whatever.
Let's stay counts.
Why did I think that was a good thing.
So we're going in.
I was kind of navigating and you were kind of navigating, kind of trying to help.
Not trying to help, but you were kind of navigating, but kind of not.
It really seemed like to me anyway, you were like, okay, I'll let you kind of navigate.
And we took her on, whatever.
We were off track or whatever.
I was like, okay, I got to take extreme ownership right now.
Because right now it's like the perfect time to take extreme ownership.
Or as should I say, the worst time not to take extreme ownership.
So I'm like, oh, no, that's my bad.
I'm going to, you know, let me do this kind of thing.
But at the same time, you really aggressively took ownership.
You're almost at the point where at first I was like, are you joking?
But you weren't joking.
You were like, take the next turn right here.
And we'd come close to it.
You'd be like, this turn right here.
This turn right here.
That's a cute, at all point around.
You were not letting me, you know, make a mistake again.
But which is funny though, but it is a good example.
Because not only, I mean, in your mind, you put forward the more important part.
You were like, okay, I'm going to take, it's like your actions said that it's your fault.
But the solutions that you had, even though they're really extreme or whatever, like,
that was the part that you were influenced by.
Wasn't the jerk about it though?
No, no, just, okay, all right, you know what, here's the next turn.
It's going to be a point five miles here.
It's coming up on the right.
All right, right, and turn right here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we know what it is.
That's how we navigate in the game.
Oh, for real?
It's actually good.
I mean, it's really squared away.
Yeah, we're in a convoy of military vehicles.
Yeah, it's awesome.
And you know, it's bad.
It's really on my part is that at first I thought you're joking, like patronizing me, you know?
I'm don't do that.
But that's really kind of my ego, you know?
How does it, it's like, duh, you said the next turn, this is the next turn, I can figure
that out.
I'm smart enough to figure that out, kind of thing.
But if I'm like, okay, this is the system, you know, Joc was going to tell me and he's
going to be detailed about it and make absolutely sure we don't miss the turn, kind of
think, then you're right, dang, that's a good way to navigate, you know?
But two people got to be on board.
But nonetheless, like, dang, you had the solution, you know?
So goes back to it, like it seems like back to this question, your enemies could take advantage
early on, right?
As it's as the extreme ownership cultures trying to take hold to kind of, that's what
I'm kind of getting from it.
Like even early on, that's what I think even early on.
Like, okay, this is the default.
Yeah, you're so happy.
Even early on, you don't look like an idiot.
You actually look square away because you go here off the problems that we're having,
that I've identified.
Here's what we're going to do to fix them.
Yeah.
Those were driving right now.
You're kind of half driving and half paying attention.
I'm over here talking or doing whatever.
Guess what?
We made a mistake.
It's not going to happen again.
I got this.
Hey, right turn, coming up 500 meters.
Right turn.
Getting the left hand lane, prepare to go, you know what I mean?
That's what we saw the problem.
And to think in the beginning, you know, you get there and you say, hey, here's the problem.
Here's what we're going to do fix it.
It's not, hey, everything's my fault.
That's not extreme ownership isn't.
Hey, everything's my fault.
Everything's my fault.
And now can you just leave me alone?
No.
Especially not in that case.
You actually have to take ownership of the problems.
I said that over and over again.
But hey, you know what?
Just like you did, too.
You got to see a move a bunch of different times, a bunch of different ways.
Yeah.
A bunch of different ways before you start to truly understand it.
Take that to everything.
Do you ever hear yourself make an excuse?
No.
Not anymore.
I know.
You know how like how you say, you can feel it.
Yeah.
Right.
You can see those excuses coming up my way.
And there's a thing you have them in your head.
Excuse is complaining.
Complain about how you feel.
You know, like when there's something to be done.
I'm not saying, you know, in every single case, but when there's something to be done,
be like, I'm tired of doing this or, I don't know whatever.
That's just around the example.
But man, I can see that stuff coming up my way.
Yeah.
No.
It's definitely something that you get used to and you get good at.
Yeah.
You get good at it.
You get good at saying, you get good at not saying, well, you know.
One of my assistant, Paltoon commanders, who's an awesome guy.
And he had this thing.
If he was going to disagree with me, he would say the word well.
Well, what's the thing about him?
But he had a funny way of saying it.
Yeah, yeah.
He would say, well, like that.
And so I'd say, hey, you know, how are you going to do this?
And he'd come up with his plan and I'd say, what about this on the plan?
You might want to come in for the north and set it from the west.
And he'd go, well.
And then I'd say, after a while, that became a code word for you're about to get
to you.
Yeah.
But he's a toad.
But he's an awesome guy.
Jack.
Whoa.
Don't tell me you're seeing me.
This is the next one.
A joke.
I've had discipline equals freedom, audio on repeat since it's release.
And I love it.
Question.
If our greatest strength is our greatest weakness, then how is discipline, which is obviously
your strength, your great sweetness.
First of all, I don't even know what discipline would be my greatest strength.
I don't know.
I mean, I'm a discipline person.
No doubt.
But I think that I think that one of the things that people would find interesting is that
I'm not overly orderly.
So if you think about those psychological characteristics, one of them is extreme orderliness,
which normally goes hand in hand with highly disciplined people.
No those people that are, they're just ultra-highly disciplined, but they have to have everything.
They're OCD orderly.
And I'm not like that about a lot of things.
I am about something, but it's pretty funny.
Actually, my floor in my garage, where I work out, is not clean.
It's got salt stains on it from sweat.
And it's dirty, right?
And occasionally I'll get someone say, you should clean that floor.
Or even, you should clean that floor, man.
That's nasty.
But it's totally functional.
My point is that I don't freak out about it.
It's functional.
It doesn't bother me at all.
That is not perfectly orderly.
This also means that I don't mind when things don't go as planned, right?
So a lot of the times you get people that are high end of disciplined, they're too, they're
too far, they're not balanced.
So now when things don't go the way, that they've planned things to go, they start
to lose it a little bit.
They can't deal with it.
They want to have everything in order all the time.
I'll tell you, that's not the way life works.
That's certainly not the way combat works.
But that's not the way life works.
And I don't really mind that.
I don't mind chaos.
So I would say, probably if you look at discipline as a strength, I don't think that would
be generally considered the weaknesses of being hyper-discipline is that you can't stand
when things are not in order.
You can't stand.
Like, I missed a workout.
This is all the way.
You know, you freak out completely.
Like, you know, okay, I don't like missing a workout.
But I don't lose my mind over it.
Yeah.
Now, all that being said, I would say that I am a very much a creature of habit.
And I do like to do the same things over and over again.
I don't like to travel.
Even though I have to travel all the time and I don't like to travel other stay home.
I pretty much eat the same food all the time and go to the same three or four restaurants
all the time.
Yeah.
Right?
I like to follow routine as much as I can.
You know, it's even in Gigiitu.
I do the same basic movements all the time.
I have the same.
You know, I've talked about like a funnel.
Like everywhere that you go with me, it's going to lead to where I want you to be.
Because I'm going to use those same moves.
I surf the same spot all the time.
So I guess for me, the way that discipline is weakness or whatever for me is that I
think I'm, I could be fairly boring and predictable.
Yeah, for other people.
Yeah.
I think like you know, people say, you want to go try this thing and I'm like, oh, no.
Not really.
Yeah.
I don't really want to.
I think you're right about that though.
Yeah.
Because I'm the same thing.
Are you the same way?
Highly disciplined.
That's true.
I'm not highly disciplined.
But like the same stuff over and over again.
The funny.
I go to, I don't even like new movies.
Oh, dang.
Okay.
You're the same.
Like, oh, you know what?
I haven't had time to watch movies for a long time.
But when I used to watch movies, big, oh, okay.
I'm going to watch the big, the bounce key.
Again.
Yeah.
But big, the bounce key is a kind of movie that, okay.
So movies are different.
I'm not going to hold things about this.
But there's two types of different movies in this situation.
There's movies that are like awesome.
Good storyline.
Maybe a great reveal at the end or twist or whatever.
And it's like good story.
And then there's like the type of movie that's just a series of good parts where the
story doesn't really matter that much.
Sometimes good.
Sometimes it's a junk.
But it's less about that.
It's more about the, like, the good parts.
Oh, this part.
And that's how the big, the bounce key is.
Like, it's just a series of really good parts.
Yeah.
And it's awesome.
That's what I mean.
I think they're both awesome.
But the ones that have the other one.
The just the storylines also like, okay.
You know, like, I can't think of anything.
I thought my head, but big LeBoski is one of those like, you know, like Napoleon, dynamite.
Yeah.
Like, that's another one.
It's just a bunch of good parts.
Who cares about what happens if they're in fact?
You probably forget really.
I mean, you remember what happens if they're in the end.
Yeah.
But it's for the storylines, you don't really care.
But you'll watch it over and over because all the parts are funny or good.
Whatever.
Like, point break.
For example, I know we talked about the first point break.
Yeah.
That's a series of great parts like this.
I'm sure I've been more the skydiving part.
The all the parts, they're just really fun.
I mean, sure the story is good.
It's cool.
It's fine.
We'll say that, but that's not the point.
The point is like, you know, anyway.
Check.
Back to the point though.
Is, oh, when we're talking about like being repetitive, like, like, you can
be the same thing.
Yeah.
We're not really boring.
I'm boring.
Yeah.
Right.
We're at a lot of sushi all the time.
And there's a sushi restaurant within walking this in some house.
Like, it's like, we're like, I drive.
But I go there like, not as much.
I'll probably go like maybe three times a week now.
But there is a point where I was going five to six times a week for real.
And there's times where I go more than one to the day.
So, of course, they just love me and my brother goes to, so yeah, they just love me
in there.
Because we're going again again.
We're just pretty, probably responsible for a significant portion of their revenue.
My wife, she's not like that.
Oh, she likes the difference.
I'm saying, yeah, it's like for writing and whatever.
And so my wife will say, you know, well, let's say we're going to go out for dinner.
That's trying something different.
Yeah.
I said, okay, tell me where.
But she knows what we're doing.
Yeah.
So we just go to old things.
Saying at least you have a few, like, different spots.
Yeah.
I have two on their both sushi places.
So it's like, and it goes for like what we do, too.
So during the weekend, it's like really repetitive.
Yeah.
My wife uses the word groundhog day planning like a lot to speak in our great movies.
Oh, no.
That's another one.
Great parts of a bunch of great parts.
But really who cares at the end?
You know, like the story, what's that?
What's that movie really about that?
What's the story about that movie?
You know, no.
Yeah, I totally know.
I've seen it in a fun time.
Like what?
You got to be nice to the girls for the groundhog.
Out day stops.
Like, why don't I know what them either?
Yeah.
It doesn't even make sense like that, but it's a good movie.
Anyway, so that was a point of making a movie.
But yeah.
So my point is with this is that, yeah, you will be boring because my wife thinks I'm boring in that way.
Or it's like, it's just the same old same old.
Every single time I'm like, probably I love the same old same old.
Like, I want to try to go on to this all inclusive thing or whatever.
It's just like, oh, it's just like, oh, this is like way better.
You know, and yeah, so yeah, I think you're right.
I think that might be.
But so if you think discipline isn't your biggest strength, what is, what do you think you're big?
Oh, I don't know.
I don't think I have any real big strength.
You know what I think it is?
I think it's, it's argument maybe discipline.
Yeah, maybe maybe not, but you know what I think?
Actually balance.
Yep.
Not many of you are balanced.
Nope.
You're pretty balanced.
Yep.
You know what I think it is?
Well, you told it to me too.
Oh, you're durable.
Oh, in terms of physical.
I think you've been mental too though.
That's the thing, like you're, you're like a durable person.
You know how people, like you've told me stories of what I'm going to, but you told me stories about someone who made huge mistakes, you know, with you, and you, like handle it, and it doesn't seem like it, like bothers you.
You know, like that kind of stuff.
Stuff that like, yeah, no, I do.
Well, and you know, to me, I guess that's balanced to me.
Yeah.
But to me, balances, I don't, I don't, it's, it's also boring.
Right?
Go far and wander around the other direction.
I don't get extreme about this or extreme about that.
I just, I think that's what has been good for me.
Yeah.
Was I never freaked out about stuff?
Much, much, much stuff.
Yeah, that, yeah, that makes sense.
Next question.
What's your biggest strength?
My biggest strength.
Yeah.
I'll tell you what I think your biggest strength is.
You're humble.
You're super humble.
Yeah.
I can't get help.
Just the other day, you were telling me you were the most humble guy in the world.
Nobody's more humble than me.
That was actually joke.
No, I didn't know you're so funny though.
It was awful.
I forget who said that joke for, yeah.
Yeah.
Maybe I had, I had one of the most egotistical persons that I've ever known.
Like, I am not kidding about this.
Yeah.
Straight up, tell me.
I have no ego.
I mean, it was just a joke.
I mean, it was, it was like, it was completely insane.
Yeah.
I couldn't believe that this individual was saying it.
No, I was just thinking myself, man, that's crazy.
Ego is, here's the thing, I don't know who you're talking about specifically, but I will say this, where obviously I wasn't.
Oh, I don't, and this may even go along with the idea that you think that a humble is like, I don't even know if, if I'm humble or not.
Because I know before I wasn't humble before, and all I thought the world like revolved around me, not necessarily like,
by the bad way, but just, just how, yeah, it was kind of like if I had certain feelings, like they were just more important than what was kind of going on.
And it wasn't like necessarily like, errr, like walking, you know, like a dick or nothing like that.
It was just that's kind of how I felt it, whatever.
And, you know, complete, you know, you're already butt at the same time.
When you, when you kind of pointed out that humility is like a super important thing, I was like, okay, how can I, how can I, I mean, okay, I'm going to assume that's true,
because you know what you're talking about. So what does that even mean? And then what I realized is a big, like, a way to exemplify humility is to, to, I don't know,
the, the ability to learn things from someone who might not necessarily be an expert, for example, you know, like,
you can learn stuff from a kid. You can learn stuff from a blue belt. Yeah, yeah, stuff from a white belt. Yeah, so that kind of stuff, but someone with
you, you go, or be like, hey, I'm a black belt, so for sure. What do you have to say to me, you know, you know, that concept that I did.
Well, interestingly, in GJ2, you could take it to the extreme of where there was times when people thought you can't learn anything from wrestlers.
You can't learn anything from judo. You can't learn anything from sambault. You know, that's, that's, that's crazy talk.
Yeah. You know, and, and the good GJ2 players take it, something from wrestling and take something from judo.
Take a bunch from wrestling, a bunch from judo, a bunch from sambault.
And then create their own stuff and watch on YouTube, somebody that does other stuff from a different academy.
Yeah, a different school. Yeah. So it's almost like there's two different types of humility, where, you know,
how like someone who's really outwardly, like, um, actually, you've had this example where like,
like, caught him a Gregor, for example, where, out, like, to, to hear him talk and stuff like that. You be like,
this guy has a huge ego, whatever. There's no humble. There's no humility with him whenever,
but like he's learning all this stuff from like people. You be like,
No, he's learning from a training hard.
Yeah, because he knows he's humble. Yeah. So what is that, you know, like, is there two kinds of humbleness in your humility?
I think there kind of, and even if we're to look at it, there's just some level of showmanship with Connor, right?
Yeah. There's some level of selling fights with Connor, but even at the same time, like, let's say that,
because there's such thing as people, probably pretty common that people are legitimately like,
into themselves in that way. Coach, Kevin, we're going to have coach Kevin on this podcast at some point.
Yeah. Yeah. Cause I've gone back and forth with him on social media.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That'd be awesome. Yeah.
But he can answer that question. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Just in general, or about Connor. Well, about Connor. Yeah. About Connor. He knows Connor better than anybody.
But you get people who are legitimately cocky outwardly, you know, kind of like,
but at the same time, they can learn from, they have the humility to learn from everyone kind of thing.
Yeah. And you know what it is almost, even. It might not even be necessarily specifically being able to learn from everyone.
It's more about what you said long time ago.
And it's like admitting to yourself that you don't know everything. Yeah.
And you don't necessarily know more than everyone at every single time.
It's like you have to be humbling up to know that you don't know everything so listen up kind of thing.
That is the type of thing where even.
So I will catch myself.
And I used to catch myself doing that.
Let's say, one today.
And then, and then it was one to week. And then it's one to month.
And it's pretty, it's the last now.
But sometimes I'll catch myself listening to someone.
And I'll catch myself thinking, oh, this guy doesn't know what he's talking.
Yeah. You know what I mean? And as soon as I hear myself saying, what does that mean?
I can take a different perspective because what can you, not this guy does know anything.
It's what can you learn from this person.
Yeah. That's the question.
Yeah.
Well, can you learn from him?
You can learn something from him.
Even if he's a white belt, even if he's inexperienced, even if he seems completely arrogant and crazy.
Yeah.
Even if you're learning how not to act, that's better than just saying, oh, this person.
Oh, no, listen to this person. I've got nothing to learn.
No, you do. I do.
So it's interesting as we talked about how you make excuses.
You personally make excuses less now.
I personally make excuses.
I might be a little ahead of you on that because I figured that out maybe a little bit earlier.
And I'm older than you.
Sure.
But it's, you know, I used to probably make excuses once a day.
Yeah.
And then once every three days and once a week, that comes in plenty of the many forms to the whole making excuses.
Because that's necessarily only me making excuses to others.
It's like to yourself.
Oh, for sure.
For sure. That's the primary.
Yeah.
That's the primary.
The easy one to overcome is making excuses to other people.
The hard one to overcome is making excuses to yourself.
Yeah.
That's the hard one to overcome because it hurts more.
The minute you say, well, you know, I didn't get the thing I wanted because of these external forces.
I mean, these external forces, the minute that you start saying that is the minute that you stop working hard for that thing.
Yeah.
Or maneuvering for that thing or adjusting for that thing or getting up early and chasing that thing down.
It becomes an excuse.
Like, meaning for sure.
You just excuse yourself.
You did?
You just excuse yourself from the workout.
Yeah.
But I would say back to the humility thing.
And I don't know.
I'm just listening to you at this point where maybe I am because I've always had had at least a little bit of that.
Where it'd be like, maybe this person right now, even though I hate what they're saying to me.
What?
Like, they could be right.
They could be right about me right now.
And I think I always had that.
I think that's why, you know, some people, they just, you talk to me, normal, whatever.
Like, the chance of this person changing how they are is very low.
Oh, most people.
Most people, right?
Most people, that's right.
Kind of the same thing.
That's right.
Kind of the same experience too.
But like if you're just a gentleman.
Yeah.
Something either really big or something really small has to happen over and over and over.
No, no, no.
Like, it's just a different infrastructure.
Right.
But I would say legitimately, and I'm trying to look at it as, like, honestly, it's possible where
me 10 years ago is like, like, if, let's say I know someone and new someone 10 years ago and I have seen them or
heard from them or whatever in 10 years.
And they'd like hung out with me for a week.
They would be blown away.
They'd be like, you're just way different.
You're like a whole different person.
It's the same with me.
I mean, so, so this is funny.
There's a bar in San Diego.
Sure.
That I used to go to when I was parking the stairs back in the teams.
And of course.
And I was, yes.
And I was a wild.
Yeah.
I was a wild.
And there was a guy that,
was a DJ there.
Sure.
And I didn't even recognize it.
I was usually not in a state to even be paying attention to those kind of things.
Anyways, to make a long story short, I decided I was going to put it in an officer package.
And I put together the package and I went into the administrative office at Seal Team 1.
And I talked to the chief that was in there.
And I said, hey, how you doing chief?
You know, I'm putting this package.
And I was just wanting you to take a look at it.
You know, if there's anything you see, I should add.
And he looked at me, he goes, I hear putting it in a package.
And I said, yeah.
And he goes, oh, that's, I wouldn't expect that for a minute.
Yeah, it's surprising.
And I was kind of, why not?
He goes, you know, I'm the DJ on this bar on these nights.
And I've been that for, you know, five years.
And I said, I was not aware of that.
You know, in his mind, he was thinking, that's what he knew me as.
He didn't really know me because he's in the admin office.
He wouldn't really know me from anything else.
And that was a little bit of a wakeup call.
But that, so my point is, I want to, I should not, I should never come off as a saint.
Yeah, that's all.
He does.
Yeah, for sure.
For sure, not at all.
And even, you know, to this day, still work and still trying to figure things out.
But, but definitely back in the day, I was an idiot.
I had fun.
Yeah, I had fun, but I was, did a lot of dumb stuff.
Yeah, but you're, I mean, and, and I, I believe you 100% where you were probably a certain way back then.
And whatever it, it was fun, it was all this or whatever.
And, but you legitimately changed a bunch or a big part of fundamentally who you are with being open.
To like, critique and criticism and learning and whatever.
And I think, yeah, I think the biggest thing is I had open eyes.
You know what I mean?
And as I moved into leadership position, I saw how other people perceived me.
And I saw the importance of leadership.
And, yeah, I mean, you just, you just have to change.
And that's something that, as a leader,
you, you see this all the time.
What got you here isn't necessarily what's going to get you there.
Yeah.
And so if you have leaders that, if they were aggressive, go cowboy when they were out in the field, that's great.
But when you, you, you, you have to, you don't have to stop that.
But you have to put some reins on it.
You have to, you have to reign it in a little bit.
The more senior you get, the more you become accountable to a board,
the more you become accountable to being a publicly traded company.
And the more you become accountable to the actions you're in the military still.
And what, the way you're going to be seen, the way your unit is going to be seen and perceived by other senior leaders.
Those are real things.
And if you don't grow up, you don't make the progress that you need to make.
And I was lucky enough to see that.
You know, I had some great examples of along the way, great leaders that I work for.
But it can be hard to see that.
Yeah.
And now that's a good, like, expression when you said, I, I, I opened my eyes or I went in with open eyes.
I, I don't even know how to describe it.
But I just was aware of what was happening a little bit more than normal or a little bit enough to make the changes, I guess.
Yeah.
And that's the hard part.
Yeah. And I think it is because of like I said, like your ego and it's hard for me to even really say that because like even when I say that word ego, it really like it registers as like this external.
Oh, they go walking around with his chest out and I don't know his mohawk.
I don't know whatever.
It's like that.
It's an extra expression, but it's not.
It's like, it's like being able to kind of shed the blinders on self critique.
And so, you know, when someone tells you, hey, like you're, you're kind of acting this way, you're kind of this way and to be able to be
to figure to yourself that this person could be right first.
And then be mad at the fact that they just insulted you second.
Of course, that's going to be part of it.
I understand.
But most times for I think most people would mean including sometimes where the fact that you step to me like that impacts me more than what you're actually saying.
I mean, but if you don't have the ego in the way that you describe it, you'll hear what they're saying first.
And then, these guys, whether they're not to be mad at it.
You know what else is weird, too, is like, as I talk about this stuff.
Like, like when I talk about detachment now, I used to, I used to not know that word when I would tell guys to do it.
This is even, you know, not that long ago, you know, but I was telling the teams.
But it took me a while in the teams while I was trying to tell guys that, but I didn't figure out the word yet.
You know, we got to, yeah, that's just one example.
There's a bunch of examples like that where I was trying to convey them.
I would convey the message, but I didn't just have like a concise way to do it or a clear way to do it, but I was still conveying the same message.
Right, right. And maybe, and that's another thing that happens is as you get older and you get more experienced, you understand the message yourself better.
Just like when you teach a detu, or you teach anything, the more you teach it, the better you understand it.
And so as I taught things, I understood it better.
Yeah.
And so that's one thing that I think helps out a lot.
And this is why it's an answer for me on so many different things with leadership.
People say, well, what do I do with this young person that doesn't listen to?
I'm a person that isn't reaching their potential. I was like, I put them in charge of stuff.
Because that's what I think helped me a lot.
It was even in my first poll tune.
When I was a youngest guy and I was the most junior guy in my first poll tune, I was the, I was the head radio man, which meant I was responsible for stuff.
I which meant I sat through the briefs and I had to help with the planning and I had to do like stuff that was outside my realm of experience.
And I had to step up and do it. And it seems like a little thing right now.
But let's say what? When you're 19 years old and you're in charge of the communications for some training exercise,
and you don't know what that all you're doing, you're step up and figure that stuff out.
Yeah.
And that's very, very impactful. So that's what you do with your junior leaders that you want to have them step up and lead.
You put them in charge of things. You put them that was very lucky that I had leaders that I work for that did that.
And I've talked about it before. I mean, that leaders that put myself and the other junior guys and put to me in charge of things.
Yeah.
Not just not just saying, but actually putting us in charge of things and that's a quick way to grow a leader.
So I was very lucky that I had that.
And I think that was one of the things that helped me to see the light, right?
Was being put in charge of things even at a younger age.
When do you think like how you just talk about detaching right now,
where you were trying to convey that message before you even called it detaching.
When did you understand the importance of that story before?
I've told the story before here. I was doing oil rigs training.
And we came up on a platform out of an oil rig. There are different platforms.
There are different levels, so I should say.
And we came up on this one platform. I think this was, this was my,
I'm trying to think this was my first or second, but I'm pretty sure it was my second, but
and as we came up on this, this level, it was, it was a little confusing.
And the whole platoon gets online and no one does anything.
And I basically stood there for a second and then I kind of stepped back off the line a bit
and I looked around and I said, okay, I see what we should do.
And I actually said, hold that clear right or whatever this little call was and everyone did it.
And the only reason I understood that was because I stepped back like a foot and looked around.
And that's all you, that's all, and I realized right then, oh, if I'm not staring down my gun,
if I take a step back, if I look around, if I detach, I didn't use that work because I didn't know that word.
But I said, oh, if you just step back and you high-port your gun and you look around,
you're going to know way more than anybody else that's staring down their gun.
And that right there changed my world. It really did.
It changed my world. And at the time, I didn't think that changed my world.
I just said, oh, cool, you know what, when people are frozen,
you take a step back, look around and make a call. Okay, that's cool. That's what I started doing.
I didn't think it was a big deal at the time. I didn't think it was a big deal until I wasn't in a structure position.
And I would see everyone staring down their gun and no one making a decision.
And all I have to do is tell someone, hey, take a step back with me right here.
One foot back off the firing line and look around. And then go, okay, we can go to this berm right here.
And we'll be out. Okay, yeah, that's right. Then I started to realize how important it was.
I started to put, you know, words around it and put, put messaging around it. That it was important.
And there's an every lesson that I talk about was all kind of learned in that method.
Yeah, all that was kind of learned by putting put in situations where I had to figure something out or something occurred or I,
and that's the same thing with my life. I've got put in some situation. It's okay, you know what?
And what I think might be kind of key about that particular idea of detaching is when you can detach in life, right?
It gives you this incredible ability to see yourself.
And I think that if we go down to the core of myself improving as a leader and continuing to try and improve as a leader,
it's because if you can detach and see yourself because that's the same exact thing like, I mentioned this earlier,
I said, you know, I kind of saw myself and saw how other guys were seeing me. Well, that you've got to detach for,
in order to see how other people are seeing you, you've got to be able to detach a little bit and understand it.
And so that ability to step back and see myself from other people's to see myself in situations and see how.
Other people were interacting with me was very, very helpful. Now, this does not mean that I was able to just correct course overnight and I don't want to make that, you know,
anyone think that. And I did dumb stuff when I was a, when I was a assistant,
assistant, but to him commander and I did dumb stuff when I was a student and I did dumb stuff when I was a tasking commander and I did dumb stuff when I was a training commander and I do, I'm going to do something dumb tomorrow, watch me.
But I think I will recognize it most of the time I look at it and say, you know what that was done.
do that again or here's how you can avoid it and I think that's what will help people. If people
can can adapt that little skill of stepping back off the line and taking a look around,
taking a look at yourself, look at how you're being perceived, what else is important is how
to actually think about how echo is perceiving me, right? Because if I'm in my own head, I can't,
I can never see how you're seeing me, but sometimes if you're acting, look the first thing I do
and someone's acting weird to me or I don't understand why someone's acting a certain way,
as I put myself in their shoes. It's hard to do that and if you don't do that,
you don't make real, you can't understand them. So if my boss is doing something crazy to me,
and all I do is get pitted them for doing something crazy, that's what we've just created
an antagonistic relationship and now things are going sideways and it's not good. If my boss is doing
something crazy, I mean I say, wait a second, why is he doing this? Let me think about what he's saying.
Oh, he's seeing Jocco, the caveman looking guy that wants to go out and he seems crazy. And okay,
I need to, I need to correct that. I need to correct that thing. I need to let him see that I'm
thinking about the big picture of that. I understand this, right? Okay, let me make those adjustments.
As opposed to he's stupid, he doesn't pitted. Screw him. No, detach.
Check other people's perspectives. Yeah, and that's a big key right there where you were like,
you said, you know, the the moment you kind of maybe realized the importance of the significance
of detaching, the oil rig campaign and then campaign was a training on. So it's not that
big of a deal to me that's a campaign. And then how you understood at whatever point that
that applies to life. Because I, man, that's, I'd say those two things. Understanding that
you don't know everything and being able to detach, which is borderline impossible, by the way,
most of your challenges. Yeah. And as far as applying it to like, like, because even in the military,
it's like, that's a very specific environment, military, like, unlike most environments
seemingly. Like, if you come, you know, like, I was talking about like, why don't I go into the post office,
or go into the grocery store dealing with my wife or something like that. But like, when you go
deep enough, detaching is going to serve the exact same significance. Good and all. So you're
way, you know, your wife comes home, you know, pissed because I don't know whatever, you know,
how you said the first reaction, what you feel like doing, which you, not you, but which one may typically
do is react accordingly, according to how I feel about this, what you're saying to me, you shouldn't
be saying this stuff to me. I didn't do anything to you. Why are you doing this to me? You know,
they're only dishes or whatever escalate escalate escalate escalate escalate escalate escalate. That's
what's happening. Yeah, that's all that's all what you're thinking. You're just thinking, hey,
this isn't fair. This is wrong what you're doing to me. So I'm going to, you know, express that or
whatever. But that's because you're not detached. Like you just did. And when you're able to do it,
again, borderline impossible. But do you find a borderline impossible? Have you made progress in that arena?
But hugely, no, here's, here's why it's not borderline impossible. It's not, that's an expression.
Okay, it's, it's, it can be impossible. It's borderline impossible because that's the last thing
you feel like doing. Yeah. So if you operate in your life, we do natural, by the way, with how you
feel, you know, like I'm just going to express myself. You know what it's like? It's like this.
It's like you're doing something. And you have to do something completely different. Yeah,
right? Just imagine that you're walking down the road. And now all of a sudden, you're walking
down the road. Maybe you're even jogging. You're jogging down the road. Now all of a sudden in a split
second, you've got to like go read a book. Like right at that moment in time while you're running,
it's like that radical of the change. Like it's something totally, that's what it feels like. When you
detach from the current situation, you're in this, you're in this thing, you're in this thing.
And you have to completely go and do something completely different. That's what it feels like. That
radical of a thing when you, when you really do it, when you do it, like when you're in a,
you know, let's say an argument with someone. He did a heated argument. It feels like you're going
from running a thousand miles an hour to, to like putting your face in the snow and reciting
the alphabet backwards. Like that's totally different. Yeah. And so that's why people are going
to ask, and they've asked us before, well, how do you do catch? And the, well, the biggest thing I
think you have to do is you have to figure out what your red flags are, what are the things that
show you that you're too engulfed in the situation and then recognize those things and then
go put your face in the snow and start reciting the alphabet backwards. Because that's what it
feels like to detach. Yeah. But if you think about the advance that you have, and I know you're
a football player, I'm not, but you know, you can watch everybody that's watching the football game on TV,
you can see every mistake that's being made as it's happening and everyone else on the field is
they're trying to, they can't compensate for him. Yeah. So they're in the game. Yeah,
and usually it's on the quarterback by the way, when the tech I was why I don't pin wedding
without the tech. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. 100%. So you have that advantage if you can do that.
Yeah. If you can manage to do that in like another cool thing about the situation,
yes. I say borderline impossible, but the more you can actually pull through and do it, the more you
can do that, the easier it becomes. And when it becomes like habit, and really all it is,
and you can do weird like met up with, which I'm kind of a fan of doing little metaphors with
yourself, you know. So if it's like, you ever watch those movies? No. Where the movie's going on,
and then the person, what you call them, the protagonist, like it's almost like he pauses the movie,
and everyone in the movie pauses exactly. And then he starts to explain. Yeah. So yeah. So it's like you
do that to yourself. So you yourself is out. And so you go boom, wife comes home, pissed, you didn't,
I don't know, clean up the dogs, whatever, or I don't know, whatever. You didn't move along. How
about that. She's pissed. You can easily move along tonight. You can easily move along tomorrow,
whenever, right, but she's pissed, right? You don't think so. So what you do is right when you feel
yourself or right when you get hurt, yelling at you, boom, pause the movie. What do we have here? What
do we have here? We have myself, wife, she's mad at something, doesn't make sense. What would make,
you know, it's like, then you just detach it. That's what you know, they've been making sense. Yeah.
How are we going to solve the problem? You can easily make sense to this area. Like, you know,
you said like the full bugging. When you, if you can pause the movie at that point, step back,
you will easily make sense. Because you're like, oh, guess what? My wife, I haven't been home for
four days. Yeah. I left a bunch of laundry out. Yeah. The baby was diaper was dirty and I forgot to
throw it away. I'm, I'm okay. I see where she's not mad about the lawn specifically. There's
a bunch of things I did wrong. And she said, hey, you know what, I totally should have moved one and
by the way, the diapers. That was that was completely out of hand. You know what I mean? And you
diffuse and you de-escalate the situation. You're detached. That's how you roll. Yeah. That's how you
make it through it. Here's a little side tip on that situation along the diapers or whatever.
It's not that the grass is long and she wants it short and the fact that it's long is making
her met. That's not the situation. The situation is she said something. She thought that that
meant something that she said something. She thought it meant something to you. When it came
time to prove whether or not that meant something to you, you proved it didn't. That's what you're
dealing with. That's what you guys are dealing with. And that's easy to figure out when you
detach. That's what I figured out. Yeah. That's what I figured out when you're in the
game. It's hard to see who's open and who's not some of the time. Most of the time.
For sure. All the time. You might kiss. All right. Next question. Next question. I think this
question is a good lead. That last answer was a good lead into this next question. Yeah.
How do you think young jockel would have performed under commander willing?
All young jockel under old jockel. Yeah. You see that reaction that you just had is what I expected
because it seems like it should be like a really interesting question. Like a really interesting
answer, but it actually isn't that interesting to be quite honest with you. If young jockel
was working for old jockel, it would have been good to go. I would have liked me as a young guy. And
as a young guy would have liked me as a boss. I was a young hard worker with a good attitude.
And sometimes I got a little bit wild as I mentioned a little bit earlier. But I could have been
tightened up by the right leader. And I wasn't like I wasn't I wasn't it wasn't ever interfering
with work and all your wild. Yeah, my wild my wildness. You know, we're getting wild. We were young
young guys with a fist full of money and just being young guys in the game. So we're just getting
after it. And you know, guys, but we weren't like causing major trouble. Right? We weren't getting
arrested much. Yeah. We weren't getting in fights all the time. You know, we were causing some
problems. But it wasn't nothing major. So we'd have been tightened up and we got tightened up
sometimes. But it would have been no factor. And as a young guy, I think I would have
liked working for me because I would have looked at myself and been like, oh, that guy's fired up.
He was good after it. And that would have been cool with me. So again, I don't think it's like
it sounds like a really interesting question. But it's not really that interesting. And the cool
thing is there's a lot of young team guys that are like, but I was a young team guy. Yeah.
It's hard. So I was like, I was looking all the young team guys like, I remember when I was like that.
Good for him. Yeah. Hey, good for him. He's fired up. Would there be any issues though? You know,
like, what, as young Jockel, who do you think or not who, but what do you think would be your major
struggle? You know, any even? With my Jockel the boss? Yeah. Yeah. No, no, we would have been cool.
We'd been cool. Yeah. And the fact of the matter is, I mean, like 95% of the
young buck team guys that worked for me. Yeah. But I love those guys. You know, they were awesome.
And no issues. Yeah. So you're, you were like, you're essentially on the path then, really,
you know, with some loose ends for sure. Oh, yeah. From the loose ends for sure. Yeah. It was on the path.
Yeah. And in, you know, my, my, the guys that I went to buzz with that showed up at
Chulti-One, broke the drain. Well, that was, all Jockel would have loved off the last
guys. They were all fired up. I was nothing special. I'm not trying to say I was special.
Because I wasn't. There was guys that were way better than me. And, you know, that's to go
back to your questionnaire. When I described myself like as my good quality being durable,
the reason I say that is because like, there's guys that were better at me than that just about everything.
Like, faster than me, stronger than me, better shots than me, whatever. I was pretty durable, though.
Like, I was pretty, I was good at being average at a lot of different things. I was a strong
average in a lot of different things, which is good. And I was durable. Like, I could, I could take
some abuse, mental and physical abuse, which is a cool quality to have, you know? Yeah, very much.
So, like a tank that just can't, you know, yeah. And again, I'm not trying to, I'm no super
man, but I'm durable. You know, that makes sense. You know, you know, like the Toyota high
looks, you know, the Toyota high looks is. Anyways, it's a Toyota truck. They have them overseas.
They're diesel. And they're really, really durable. Really, there's a, there's a show
from England, my wife from England. There's a show in England. It's called Top Gear.
My son watches the show Top Gear. They tried to destroy a Toyota high looks.
Yeah. They were doing like, it just crazy things to it. It's a really durable.
It's not the fastest. It's not the strongest. You know, but it's durable.
Turbles are good quality to have. I got to ask the other day, you're so sorry.
You should do Olympic lifting. I'm like, bro, I'm not even in the mall park to, you know, compete with
Olympic. We'll be just crazy talk. Crazy talk. I'm sorry.
Yeah. That's anything that you start competing. You better. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Crazy talk. Check. So yeah, young young, young,
buck, juggle. He would have a good time and old juggle. Like I said, man, there's,
there's a ton of young team guys that fired up. I was out with some young team. I was out
at with some team guys. And there was some young team guys there and some of these young
team guys fired up. Awesome. And like, yeah, you know what, you know, people say like,
oh, millennials and this and then we, you know, America's getting weak. I'm like,
I'm going to go hang out with some of those guys. They're 20 years old. I'm like, you know what,
we're going to go. Yeah. We're good to go. We got some guys that are beasts. Solid. Yeah.
Beyond solid. Freaking awesome. Yeah. My, my two friends that are in the
German, in the UK, not to think, talking to them now, like the maturity level is just really,
like really impressive maturity level, especially for both of them. But at the same time,
thinking back on them and how they kind of when they started when they're like,
we're going to the seal teams, all this stuff, considering that and then considering where they
are now, it makes it seem the same to me where older them wouldn't have a problem with them.
They say they run the path for sure. Those are kind of guys I'm talking about. Like those guys,
well, I would love that. Those guys working for me when I was a, when I was a commander and I would
love to have those guys as my chief when I was a young guy. Yeah. No, no factor. Yeah.
So like I said, I think people thought that sounded like an interest question, but you actually
wasn't. Yeah. Fortunately. Like you're building on these violations. Yeah. Yeah.
I got easy. Crazy. That was, it's crazy stuff. What about social,
lethal? Not socially, but what do you say? Like you're like outside of the military, you know?
Yeah, but I mean, I was a young kid. Yeah, but the end has an older guy. You're saying you look at
the young kids and you go, yeah, you know, he's young. Yeah. He's getting after it. God bless him.
Bless rock and roll. I got to let me keep him out of trouble. Yeah. That's all good.
All good. I think I might have some problems with myself.
Young echo. Oh, because young echo wasn't on the path yet. No, no, yeah. There was no path. I didn't even
see a path. Really? I don't know. Maybe. All right. Next question. What advice would Jockel give his 17
year old self regarding school, social relationships, parents, peer pressure, etc. Yes. This is like the
actual Jockel podcast tonight. Is he? He's a guy. He's a question to her about Jockel. Yeah. Actually,
that's kind of what I was asking like outside of the military. Yeah. You know, if I was going to tell
myself something here's a couple things that you know, I would tell myself to do that. I tell
to tell myself to learn that. I would tell myself that that girl isn't the whole world. Yeah. And those
friends are the last friend you're ever going to have and the party isn't going to be the best
party of all time and all those things that you think is what we talked about earlier. All those
things that you think are a huge deal when you're young. They're not a big deal. And I know that's
kind of messed up, but it's true, man. It's true. The things that you think are a big deal when you're
17 years old or not that big of a deal. And it's really hard to convince someone that 17 years old
of that. Right. They also also what they don't recognize is things that are a big deal.
They don't recognize. They think they're a little deal. Right. So they're doing stupid things, right?
Whether it's drinking and driving, whether I mean kids still drink and drive now. Like,
yeah, how dumb is that? Yeah. Seems great. And just so people don't think, you know,
nowadays we've talked about social media already, but people post stuff on social media and you
come and what is wrong with you? And I guess, you know, I've heard now and we work with a lot of
different companies when you apply for a job, they go and look at your social media and see what kind
of an idiot you might be. That's a good move. Oh, it's a great move. It's a great move. So
yeah, just just recognize that some of the little things are actually big and some of the
big things are actually little and I'd square those things away. And the answer said this before,
when you're young, you've got to realize that how you act now is directly related to your future
success, to your future happiness, to your future financial situation, to everything. So it's hard
to make that connection, right? We're young. Impossible. It might be impossible. Some kids get it, though.
I'm telling you, some kids get it. I think they're just, no, some kids get it. Some of my oldest
daughters, friends, they get it. Like, they're on track. They're on track. They're like, hey, I'm doing this.
I'm doing that. They're on track. They're 16 years old. They're studying for the SATs. They're taking the
AP classes. My daughter included. They're on track to make stuff happen. Yeah. But I think, and I'm
not saying this is the case, but this is probably the case. When we're in another,
that could be wrong. But okay, so we talked about this before, even the part of your brain that
understands all that they're talking about. Yeah, it's an air developed. So this is, you know,
this is from what I understand how you kind of influence people. You just put them on a routine.
Kind of like, okay, so it's the difference between understanding like what I'm doing now and having
it tangible. No, I'm telling you. I know where you're going with this. And you're, I believe that
there are definitely some kids like that that are just, they're just like, hey, okay, I'm supposed to
get good grades, many of your grades, and I'm supposed to get a big deal on that track. I know for
a fact kids that are like, no, I am going to do this, this, this, and it's going to lead me here.
Actually, you know what, you're right, because this is a Blake. You know, remember Blake,
you see the videos for? Yeah. So he, we did like a thing where I think it's like a Q&A or something,
something like that, and he was, he was talking about that, where in elementary school, he remembers
feeling like if I don't have perfect attendance and have perfect straight days, I won't pass this,
not pass, but I won't like be the perfect guy or whatever, and he said that he would, um,
it would like create like this track to his whole future and his life would be ruined.
Yeah. That's how he felt. How's it? Whoa. Oh, I'm living like,
literally minute to minute and third grade. It would be like the reason I wanted to do my
homework and get good grades is so I wouldn't get in trouble straight up. It was not to get into
college, it was for sure. None of that stuff. For sure. And then that's the way most kids are. In my
opinion, most kids are, hey, I don't want to get in trouble. Some immediate repercussions myself included.
Yeah. Hey, I got to pass this so I can go to the next grade. Yeah. All in a
mean stuff. Yeah. Or I don't want to be the guy in class who didn't do his homework. You know,
kind of thing. Yeah. It was like it was all I ever felt that way. Yeah. But yeah, I guess so. Yeah,
I guess so. That's me trying to, I got to step out to myself on that one. And I guess the final thing.
Obviously, I tell myself, this is funny. It was for you to, which is basically what we're saying.
Yeah. So get this one, you know, you live your life. Yeah. That pen that, I think the biggest one
there is to, to whether they totally understand that or not, say like, what you're doing right right now is
the important things in life, the things that you think are important are not important.
Are not important. And then things that aren't that you think are not important,
important are important. So it's kind of like a iceberg, you know, the old people,
people, I don't know, lots over that little statement. You know, I guess people really like the way you say
important. You just said eight times. Oh, yeah. Well, it's a flurry of glory and rainbows.
emojis. Yeah. Well, hey, yes. I agree with you. So like the iceberg thing, you know,
you know, the iceberg metaphor where it's like people only see the top of iceberg could be
low that is like this huge iceberg. So that's what that's what important things are in life.
Right. So you think it's just this little small little iceberg, but when you think of the whole
scope of life, which you have no access to by the way, as a kid, it's that whole iceberg. You know,
so if you're not focusing on that important part of the iceberg, well, I guess,
an iceberg situation is not that important, but you can come another metaphor, but it'll sink your
ship. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like in that kind of situation, but and then at the same time,
the things that aren't really important, meaning they don't have an iceberg under there. They're
just little floaty things. You think that's so important. Nothing's in a melted get cut over
whatever, you know, not going to sink you. No, it's not going to sink you. It's just kind of it's
fleeting. Check. A one thing before we closed out tonight, because I think that's good for questions.
I want to hit a couple, 10 verses new book. I want to hit a couple quick things from it.
Tribe of Mentors is what it's called. And it was a lot of good info in it. And it's written in
really short little sections. If you didn't know this yet, I mean, you can read them in like five
or ten minutes. And then what he did in this book is he took and asked the same, I think it's 10 or 11
questions to all these different, I would say random, but they're not random because they're all kind of
successful in whatever realm they're going to be successful. And because I guess successful is a very
open turn, right? Whatever realm they're in, there's successful with all kinds of people in here.
And I just, I read like the first couple, 150 pages or so, and I just want to do pull out a couple
of the couple ones that I thought were pretty cool. That I thought people could take a little
something away from. And I was like 10, can I read a couple of these things? He said, yeah, go ahead.
Whatever. Hopefully it doesn't sue me. Anyways, so here we go. The first one is a little
section from some excerpts and I'm not reading the whole like everything in each person's section,
but just some of the highlights. Stephen Presfield, the guys in author, he's in Marine Corps.
You know who Stephen Presfield is? Yeah, he wrote the art of war. He wrote the legend of
bagger vans. That's a war of art. Yes, he wrote the war of art. Yeah, which is obviously a play on
words for the art of war. And the war of art is like how to be creative and how to overcome those things
and overcome the resistance and all that. Joe Rogan actually told me he used to have a stack of those
books and he just gave them the people who came to meet him. Yeah, that's why I read it.
Joe Rogan. Oh, there you go. And he also wrote Gates of Fire, which is a freaking awesome book,
actually, and it's about the Spartans, the Battle of Thermopoli. And they actually teach Gates of Fire
like at the basics of the Marine Corps and at the Naval Academy, at least I've heard that they've
teach it. So that's pretty, that's pretty awesome. Anyways, here's a question for Stephen Presfield.
The question is, what advice would you give to a smart driven college student about to enter the
real world? What advice should they ignore? Here's what he said, I'm probably hopelessly out of date,
but my advice is get real world experience. Be a cowboy, drive a truck, join the Marine Corps,
get out of the hyper competitive life hack frame of mind. I'm 74, believe me, you've got all the
time in the world. You've got 10 lifetimes ahead of you. Don't worry about your friends,
beating you or getting somewhere ahead of you, get out and get into the real dirt world and start
failing. Why do I say that? Because the goal is to connect with your own self, your own soul,
adversity. Everybody spends their life trying to avoid it. Me too, but the best things that
ever happened to me came during the times when the shit hit the fan and I had nothing and nobody to
help me. Who are you really? What do you really want? Get out there and fail and find out.
Very interesting. Pretty cool. What's funny? I was talking to Jake last night. Literally last night
told me the same thing. Get out there and fail? What part? That thing. It's like, you know,
live. So me when I step outside of my comfort zone, I take one tiny step. And here's the thing.
He told you to jump. He told me to, yeah, I take a bigger jump. He didn't tell me to do it. He just
recommended it. Because my whole, and this is probably half justification. By the way,
I have a comfort zone. I'll take one tiny step and then I'll take the, you know, when you step
outside, you can burn to whatever you get, you know, whatever and then you grow from it. That's what
it happens. That's the whole idea. So I take a tiny step. Then I take the tiny hit and then I get the
tiny growth. But I try to do it all the time all the time all the time. But it's still safe, man.
That's still safe. Because that's just like one pinky outside the comfort zone. That's what you've
seen. It was like you, like you get a step outside. Because just the fact that you can endure a big
fail, you know, you see, go out there and fail, right? It's best field. So if you can endure like a big
fail or two big fails or major fails, now you have the ability to endure major failure, you know,
you're kind of thinking. That's that's his whole thing. It's like, yeah, that makes sense. I didn't
tell him that at the time. It's like, oh, man, I'm doing it perfectly. Tiaq, next question for Steven
Pressfield, when you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? Here's his answer. I have a
friend at the gym who knew Jack LaLaine. Google him if the name is unfamiliar. Jack used to say,
it's okay to take a day off from working out. But on that day, you're not allowed to eat.
That's the short way of saying you're not really allowed to get unfocused.
Take a vacation, gather yourself, but know that the only reason you're here on this planet is to
follow your star and do what the muse tells you. It's amazing how a good day's work will get you
right back to feeling like yourself. That's good info right there. When I realize this,
it's so easy to go down the downward spiral of Epad Food, feel bad, not get good workouts,
sleep, plate, sleep like crap. And then what do you do when you feel like crap?
You want to feel better as soon as possible so you do some immediate gratification. Right,
you go, you know what? I don't feel like working out so I'm not going to work out.
And then you say, you know what? I don't feel good. In reason you don't feel good,
is because you didn't work out. That's enough what you use you like well,
but you know what's going to make me feel better? Adonat, I'm going to be here,
then a beer, and say you get the donut in the beer. And then now you really don't feel like
working out. So that's the downward spiral. Break the spiral, break it, break what you call
in the other day when Jordan Peterson was on, break the loop. Right. So that's the same thing.
You got to break the loop and that's what he's talking about. When you're feeling like crap,
get after it. That's what that's how I translated. And it makes you feel better and it gets you
right back on the path. Yeah. And that's why actually fasting is a good thing. Yeah.
Fasting is a good way to get yourself re-acquainted with the path real quick. You feel your body
with a bunch of junk. Yeah. It makes you not want a performance, it makes you not want to work out,
it makes you not want to work when you're clean. You feel good. So hit a fast 24 hours.
You know, yeah, rock and roll. Yeah. And I like that. You want to take a day off. That's cool.
I think no eating. How legit is that? It's real legit. It's a real legit. Because now,
yes, what? At lunchtime, you're like, man, I just want to eat something cool. Go bang it.
Yeah, go workout. And then you can get your grub on. Or you can just work out and still not eat.
All right. Getting into the next cat here. This guy's name is
Jersey Gregorick. And this guy am a great football in the United States. It's a political refugee
with his wife in 1986. And he won subsequently won four world weight lifting championships
and established one world record record founded the UCLA weight lifting team. And by the way,
this guy's been on this guy's been on Tim's podcast as well. This guy, Jersey.
And also writer, write poem, wrote poems and had award winning poems. But this is kind of a cool
little statement that he wrote in here. He kind of goes on a little bit of a tangent. This isn't
related to the question, but I want to jump into it. He says five years ago, I decided to eliminate
my reactive behavior to irritations. But at first, none of my tricks worked. I placed philosophical
and inspirational quotes on my iPhone wallpaper and wrote my journal. But the Proverbs always
lost their effectiveness over time. Then one day, I told one of my clients who blamed her husband
for everything to take 100% responsibility for her part in the interactions. This way, I said,
you will be free of trying to control him and you will be able to find constructive solutions in
your relationship. When she left, I realized that the same advice could help me as well, taking 100%
personal responsibility would help me to stop blaming or complaining and achieve a sense of flow.
It would also give me the clarity in any conversation to locate the right words to help a person
accept a hard choice. So he's talking about extreme ownership. And we talk about that.
We're taking a taken extreme ownership in a relationship with another human being.
Don't blame them. Figure out how you're going to solve the problem yourself.
You know what this reminded me of was when Captain Plum was on and he was had a cellmate.
And what they, you remember Captain Plum and he touched on it. But he was saying that if their
cellmate was annoying them, because they're living with one other or two other or three other
people for months on end in a little freaking Hanoi Hilton cell. And he said, if that person
because you can imagine how you get on each other's nerves and they all took the ad to do it.
If they allowed themselves, if Echo was getting on my nerves, it wasn't Echo's fault. It was my fault.
Yeah, yeah. Mind fault. Yeah. And that's what he's talking about here. Then you can actually fix it.
The next question that Jersey answered is this one, if you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere
with anything on it, what would it say? And why? And here we go. Here's what his answer was. Hard choices,
easy life, easy choices, hard life. Nothing truly meaningful or lasting has ever been created in a
short period of time. If you learn the story behind any great success, you realize how many years
went by and how many hard choices were made to achieve it. Reaching for more is not only an
active ambition, it also comes from passion and love. Nothing is achieved because of easy choices.
I believe that people can endure any hardship if it is sensible and constructive. Hard choices
means never retiring because the brain has to be engaged in finding new solutions in the moment.
Not just remembering old formulas. Hard choices make us wiser, smarter, stronger, and well-being.
Well-theor and easy choices reverse our progress. Focusing our energies on comfort or entertainment.
In every difficult moment, ask yourself, what is a hard choice and what is an easy choice?
And you will know instantly what is right. Does that even need commentary?
Not really. That's a great thing to think about. Discipline equals freedom.
Discipline is hard, man. Yeah, you know how you say pain our palator kind of thing.
Yeah, you know. If you want to pay later or if you want to, a lot of people they try to pay later.
Yeah, well the best thing. So I heard it on the other day, you can either suffer the pain of
discipline or the pain of regret. Right, same thing, same thing. People say in the same thing.
Must mean something. Yeah. It must mean something. Pay attention to it. Yeah.
All right. Moving to the next section here, page 127 from Tribamentor's Amelia Boone.
And she wakes up at like three o'clock in the morning. She's legit. And she's four time world champion
in the sport of obstacle course racing. I met her a couple times. You met her too. Yeah.
She's a beast. And what's cool about her is she beats like she did the 2012 world's toughest
mother competition. It's 24 hours, 90 miles, 300 obstacles. She finished second overall
out of more than a thousand competitors, including 80% of which are male. Second overall.
Did I have to say some about being durable earlier? Yeah. That's durable. So Amelia
awesome human and a lot less one we'll do here. But she got to ask, no, same question.
If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would you say and why?
And Amelia says, no one owes you anything. We live in a world that's rampant with entitlement,
with many people believing that they deserve to be given more. My parents raised me to be self-sufficient
and oppressed upon me that the only person you can really depend on in life is you.
If you want something you work for it. You don't expect it to be given. If others help you
long away, that's fantastic, but it's not a given. I believe that the key to self-sufficiency
is breaking free of the mindset that someone somewhere owes you something or will come to your rescue.
No one owes you anything. No one's coming to your rescue. It's on you. Obviously,
I couldn't agree more. That's funny because as she said, I mean, we know the importance of a team.
And you always hear people say, you know, you can't do it by yourself. And I'm not here.
I'm here because of so many different people. That's true. But that doesn't mean that you can
sit around and rely on other people to save you or to do the heavy lifting or even to help you out
in either way. Help from other people is a luxury. It's a luxury that you shouldn't count on.
So step up and open it and make it happen because no one owes you anything. That book is
tribal mentors Timothy Ferris. He's got Timothy. Not too many more. Timothy Ferris. Short life advice
from the best in the world. All right, speaking of helping people. Echo channels. Yeah. Maybe you
can help people learn how to support themselves. Yeah. And maybe if they want to also simultaneously
support this podcast if they want to. That that would be fantastic. But we're not relying on it.
Is that kind of the theme? I'm hoping. Yeah. I'm not. Hey, I got this. I'll run with it. Sure.
Oh, yeah, sure. Of course. Sure. You want me to run with it? No. Because I'll be done with it.
Four minutes. Right here. What's interesting is that kind of depend on you and rely on you to kind of
help bail me out this podcast. Otherwise, it'd just be kind of talking to myself. Okay.
Check. Actually, I wouldn't be talking because I typically talk after you talk like in reaction
to you. So if it was the Echo podcast, it would just be silence. Yeah. It wouldn't even be
good evening because you say good evening. You know. No podcast. Check. It's all good. So yeah,
support yourself. All right. We'll talk about acrylic oil. Jocco is acrylic oil. Jocco super
acrylic oil. Super. Super. Yeah. And also Jocco joint warfare. Lucas being enjoying this offer.
Your joints. The best type of supplement in my opinion. You know, when I have you been into other
supplements, not in the long time. Yeah. So I have like in my younger days where I take like,
I don't know protein powder. Like this thing that does this. You know, I can say with full on
honesty that when I stop taking it there, what happens when you stop taking it? That's the thing.
Yeah. So there is a difference. And especially, I mean, I don't know. I'm, I'm whatever,
A jam now. I don't have to go into that part. But so I don't know. I don't know how it is to take
acrylic oil when I was like in my 20s. So I don't know. You know, kind of think, but I know now.
And I'll tell you this and I have got nothing for like a, it was like maybe a week,
a little, little bit more than a week. And yeah, they could they came back, man.
The joint situation. Yes. You know what I think, you know what I think the acrylic oil and the
joint warfare do make you durable. Yeah. Thank you, dirt. I believe they contribute
evenly to my durability. Yeah. And that's, and it's actually saying a lot for me, because
and for you too, big time because you're, you're not like a small guy, you know, a small person.
And let's face it. We're older than we were before. It's a true statement.
We're older than we were before. And you, you, you, you, you actually more so than me, you do like
hard stuff. Yeah. Like lifting, jiu-jitsu, like hard stuff. Yeah.
Yeah. Harder than the normal person. Maybe some people, not a melee boom. Yeah.
She's out there. 90 $300. Yeah, she's out there. 90 miles.
Awesome. You got some. Yeah, see what up. She's not already on it or something like it.
Nonetheless, the joint situation is like that's saying a lot. If you can do the stuff that you do
and I, just kind of doing some intro spectrum kind of detaching, whatever. I'm looking
at the stuff that I do, it's like, man, it helps a lot. I don't think I would be able to go as hard.
Oh, no, you definitely wouldn't. Like just daily. My shoulder healed. Yeah. My elbow straight
up. Yeah. There you go. And my knees, I put a view so my knees with, with like working out.
And jiu-jitsu, because they're kind of loose. Skinny and skinny. I thought you were just there.
But like they're super loose, where when I blew out many in college, the doctor, when he, you know,
they do the tests, they're like, okay, before they do that, they do the tests. All these tests.
They just kind of wiggle them and do all this stuff from different positions. And they wiggle both of them.
And they're like, bro, your knees are loose. Like, this just geneticicity that they were skinny too.
Anyway, they were loose. And then, do you said you're skinny? I do. And skinny ankles.
Get up right now. Anyway, then I hurt my knee when I was one of the great. And I went to
the doctor who performed the surgeon by step. And he did. He was like, oh, yeah, you have a
blown AC up. And I was like, oh, who, I only have, I hurt the outside of my knee or the inside of my knee.
Not the outside or not my, I didn't blow out my knees. Like, no, you blew out your knee. I was like,
dang, that was like, oh, but he didn't run any comprehensive tests. He just did it real quick. Like,
we go that. And then I was like, whoa, my doctor in college said I have really loose knees. So check this one.
And there he had like another person there and he goes, um, and he checks the other thing. He was like, whoa,
whoa. But the difference is when you wiggle a note ACL knee, it doesn't like a
abruptly stop even if it's loose. So I'm saying. So like, if you have no ACL, it's like,
it's like a blunt, like, it's like if you had a big accord in there, like a real tense, like a tension
cord or something that didn't didn't stretch at all. And mine are just a little bit longer. You
assume same. So I have to loosen these. Nonetheless, so the point is I don't long. Expleship, I understand.
When I roll, you just go, they'll pop out sometimes. Lose ends. And then if they pop out,
and then I like kick or straighten out real quick or whatever, it'll pop out. And you know how you
bones, they're just kind of shaped like this. They do this and then they'll get like caught on each other.
And when they get caught on each other and you press, it'll like mess up the cartilage. Yeah.
So they'll get swollen on the inside at the end of the day. They get swollen for like some days.
They're gonna like warm a month more or whatever. But yeah, they take, I just take the grill oil.
I don't know, I just ignore the swelling. Yeah, no factor. And I'm pretty flexible too.
Check. No, no less. Anyway, you want to support yourself. There you go.
Jockel super cruel and joint warfare, boom, physical support on your supportive structures.
Also, if you're going to do you do, origin has a new key.
What is it? Your signature key is that we call it? No, no, no, that's not. Yeah, I mean, that's the key. It says cool stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. So I guess technically as far as what a signature something would be. Yeah, that's the
Jockel key. It's not called the Jockel key. Oh, no, we wouldn't be having it. I guess we have
Jockel party. Yeah, but that's just for a lack of a better name. Really true. This one. Yeah, no.
Anyway, the death key, the death key. Yeah, discipline equals freedom. G. It's a good one.
Kind of lighter weight. It's um, P. Tom, G. Please, P. said that the weave. Yeah, it's athletic. Weave. It's a real weave.
Yeah, it's not just taking cotton, which is what, which is what they just make pants from 1908 from.
Yeah, it's an athletic. And when you put it in the dryer, or you put it in the washing machine,
when you get down, it's almost dry. It's got cotton in it, but it's also got a poly blend. Yeah, yeah.
That's good stuff. And it's all made here in America. From the seed of the cotton, the very seed that you plant
the seed. I wonder where they get the seeds from. Charlie here. Yeah. You can see their Tennessee,
your South Carolina. Yeah. So if you want, we'll find out. Yeah, even buying the seeds or acquiring the seeds
in whatever capacity. Yeah, it's here in America. Planted in America, cotton grows in America.
Harvested in America, obviously. Died in America. Died in America. Died in America. It's up to
main repeat. We've it in a bunch of looms into fabric and into geese. Boom, right on your back.
Just start rolling all mean in America. That's all the stuff. And Virgin, by the way, if you don't know
already. And they got some good rashguards and compression gear, which is what the same thing.
Yeah, yeah. Brashguards and compression gear. I've noticed because I didn't use to use
rashguards other than for surfing. Do you notice you feel a little bit like the compression
helps you athletically? Do you feel that? I don't feel that. No, but I don't think I'm paying
attention to me on a seeding. Placiba. I'm just trying. What about people that get 19% improvement
in their geese skills? That's real. That's 100%. But me, you know, the first thing, but I hear
good things about compression. Like I see the links to articles that say all the performance
benefits and all this stuff. Here's the thing. I don't read them. I don't know. So, I wear
knee pads when I roll. Yeah. And I wear them for two reasons. Well, I wear them for three reasons.
Number one, just abrasions on the knee, right? Whatever. Matt burn on your knee. Which is cool.
You get it. Maybe you get it. Maybe you get it once every three days. That's once every three
days. You got Matt burn on your knee and you got blood and you got people that are like,
hey, I don't want to roll with you because you're bleeding or whatever. So, that's just a pain.
Number two, it for me keeps them warm, right? All right. You're right. You just get just warm
up your knees. And number three, it provides a little bit of compression that makes me feel good.
Now, I feel when I put on a rash guard, I feel like that on my body, which is good.
Yeah. I don't know. I think it feels good. Yeah. I'm compression gear. I can't speak really on it.
But I for damn sure it can't speak against it. And it's all made in America and there.
Do some research. Yeah. Yeah. If that even matters, you don't does that matter. That much.
Well, well, you wear it because it's efficient to roll in for sure. Yeah. The most efficient
thing you can roll in is a rash guard. Yeah. I feel like, like, hey, that's the uniform.
Be all the, the, the, what do you call it, ergonomic,
yes, ergonomic. It's like, you know how, like, you said the mat burn. You don't get
mat burn like all day every day. It's just like, yeah, if you, if you're going super hard and
you're knee or your elbow or whatever happens to be against the mat at it, you know, it's like,
it's a happenstent situation. Unless you're new. Unless you're new. You get mat burn. All in
that weird to where your body learns, appropriate reception to keep you from getting mat burn.
Hey, notice if you haven't rolled for a long time, you'll get your feet all mat burn. Your feet
tough for your knees get all mat burn up. When you're, when you know when you're in the roll,
mode, you barely get mat burn. You're like once every three or four rolls. Well, once every three
or four days, you'll get a little mat burn on top of your toes. Yeah. Bro, I haven't had mat burn
and tell my toes in like long time. It's like, yes, like your skin gets smart. You're like,
oh, what are we doing? Rolling? Okay. We had a tough enough right now. Have you rolled on a, like,
a reslight resting mat? Barefoot, after you've been rolling on a hard to tell me mat for a while.
It takes like a week to get used to it. Why? Because you, will stub your toe a bunch.
Because your toes won't know where to go. Because they're deeper and softer. Yeah. It's like,
when you play football on grass and you go to our, our defender. You got to use that. Yeah. It's weird.
Yeah. That's true. Anyway, cool, compression gear. Good. I'm glad that it's compression.
Because some people do care about that. And I think that if you go one of those people.
Oh, if you know the benefits in your benefiting from it, there you go. Boom. I just, I don't think I just
been paying attention, but after this guess what? I will. Because I'm not always right about things.
As far as the way I look at them. Also, also, I want to talk about on it. So, I would go into my whole
kettlebell routine, which is smashed yesterday. By the way, I got a new Cyclops one. By the way,
so again, cool. If you get regular kettlebells, they're regular ones. That's good. Because doing
kettlebells is way better than not doing kettlebells. When I recommend, see get the good ones. The dope,
decorative artistic. Duck, I don't like decorative. You like decorative. The word decorative. No,
here to win. Artistic artistic kettlebells. I say get those ones. They're just way cooler. Especially if
you're into Instagram stuff. That's what I think. It's my opinion. Nonetheless, they got regular ones as
well. Go to on it.com slash jockel. They have a bunch of fitness stuff. I noticed
jocgos mace. That he recommend I use for like other stuff, which is actually part of a big point
that you can use a lot of this stuff for like various different sorts of exercise activities. Yeah.
And they have like a bunch of cool stuff on there. Like stuff that's different from your traditional
bench squat, you know, functional stuff. Check. Nonetheless, on it duck, I'm slash jockel. Go there,
boom. Support yourself. Expand your workout man. If you want, you could be like jocquood does the same thing
over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and
over. You can do very. But they vary over and over and over and it can. They also have some
strong actually. Actually. They need to be honest myself. I do the same. You got to work out all the time
with variations, but those variations will come in cycles that go over the same pattern. Yeah, but that's
kind of the whole point of work out though. It's like your body gets used to certain activities. You
can't let it get too used to it. That's why they say, you're going to switch it up.
The shock your body, all the stuff. But if you're constantly just shocking your body,
you're like, okay, we're doing your body is kind of saying this to you. It's like, okay, what are we
doing? I'm going to get as good at it as possible. Okay. So however many times we got to do this thing,
I'm going to try it in my best. As long as you feed me and rest me, I'm trying my best to accommodate
you as far as, you know, get in better at this thing. Now, if you give me one thing to do and say,
get good at that, we're never doing it again. You know, there's no real results except for maybe
the underlying system, you know, maybe like your heart rate or your, you know, those types of things.
Maybe you're, what do you call your, you know, when you can endure like hard stuff,
durable. Yeah, like mental durability, maybe that, but if you do like one exercise, sure, you'll
be sore and then that's kind of it. The benefits of that program won't really. Then again,
I don't know, I could be wrong. I could be missing like some new science on the deal nonetheless.
Research it. Search it, get a good workout routine. And if you want to expand it,
go to on it because they have the good stuff. Also, if you want to get Timothy Ferris's book
that Jockel was quoting Jockel's in there, by the way. How many times many coats do you have in there?
I don't know. 11. Just 11 questions. 11 answers. Jockel, so these and they're the same, right?
They're the same as the same all the course. All the course. All the stuff. Yeah. And he was a
thing like Tim will post like little excerpts of like just little quotes, you know,
and that's really interesting thing that he did there where he asked everyone the same question.
Oh, yeah, because that's a person Tim's personality. He looks for patterns. Yeah. Yeah. That's
how you find patterns. That's super. It's something. It's so it's basically you have 11 categories
of advice that you can get from these top-level people in different like industries different.
And then he's got like he's kind of sorts them in the back. So you can see what everyone
is. He kind of assembles the information in some various ways in the back of the book so you
can sort of pull the knowledge. Yeah, man. That's great. That's good. Yeah, man. I actually like that kind
but that is smart though. So that's essentially what you have. You have this big book of advice
from all these complete experts that is exactly what it is. Yeah. Yeah. So there you go. When you get that,
just go to here. Look, we'll offer it. Jockelpodcast.com. Go on the top. Top menu. Books from the
episodes. Boom. I got you right there. Tribal mentors by Timothy Ferris. Click through there.
It's a good way to support. If you want to shop for anything else, go ahead and do that. Carry on,
man. Support away. Some people think that that's not a big deal. It is a big deal. Clicking through
there. I mean, it is a big deal. It's hard to do. Easy to do. Small action. Small action.
Big reaction. Yeah. Just like sodium when you throw it into water. Anyway, subscribe to the podcast.
YouTube. That's for the video version. But on iTunes and Google play,
stitch your podcasting, providing platforms. Seems obvious, but if you haven't already subscribed,
just a good way to support. Also YouTube, like I said, video version of this podcast. Also excerpts.
If you want to share a little ideas that have emerged from the podcast, you want to share them
individually. They're on there. Most of them. I work on them every week. Put them on there.
You can share them. It's good with reason to subscribe to the YouTube. Also, I'll put some,
you know how people what's called this like mashups. They're called mashups.
Yeah. When you put like an excerpt on your voice. Oh, they put music videos. Yes. They put some video.
So, you know, visual aid is what it's called. Wait, do you make mashups?
Make, I don't, here's the thing though. So a mashup is like you just take various clips,
you know, of whatever, you know, like they're just visually. You do like a whole thematic thing.
And that's kind of the thing. So I don't know. If you don't know, those, that's not really.
Do you think about it? Kind of. Sometimes taking a shot.
Yeah. I don't know. Block. Read the war of art. Or I might be just working diligently and obsessively
on maybe new approaches and methods. Put the war of art on their part on our side too. So people can get that.
The war of art. Yeah. I read down. That's good. Yeah. I need to maybe revisit it for this.
For the video production standpoint. Nonetheless, when I do make those videos, I put them on YouTube.
And that's yet another reason to subscribe. On top of the fact that it does support
the podcast. So it's like a big circle loop of support. You see what I'm saying? Also,
Jocquas is a store. It's called Jocquasdoor.com. Is where you can get your
disciplining quotes to freedom. Sure it get after it. Sure it. And other shirts.
Of that type. Also, rashguards on their new rashguards on there.
Two new rashguards on there. I don't know. Two or three. You got to look. Jocquasdoor.com.
The rashguard is sodium. Small action. That's a rashguard. I don't know. I got to take the
pictures. I got to list them. So during that process, hopefully. Sounds like that's a real hard
hard. Take pictures and list them. I'm trying to. Anyone want to job out there in the world? Any
way. I have a hard time taking pictures of a rashguard. Warier kid rashguards for youth. Nice. For the
warrior kids themselves. So look out for that. My little daughter was sporting hers today. I know.
It looks good. It looks good. It looks very, very, very good. Nonetheless, they're on there.
Drugs. There are some hats on there. Beanie's coming as well. And other stuff. Look out there.
Yes. I'm not saying goodbye. Beanie. I'm not saying that. You might not need one. Maybe you're
in Hawaii. Yeah. But you're wearing a bikini in Hawaii just for the look. But maybe you're in
shi-down. Yeah. And you need to be in Michigan somewhere. Dang. Nonetheless, gone there.
If you like something, get something. Good way to support. Also psychological warfare on your
campaigning against weakness. That's what we're going with right now. Campaign against weakness.
Improving yourself. You're going from a person who is incapable of detaching, who is incapable
of understanding the message rather than your feeling about the message. If you're that person
yet, you're on the path to become a different person. Someone who can understand the message first,
feeling second. The ability to detach, we're always working on it. And if you're working on that as well,
this is what you do. You hit those moments of weakness. You have this album with tracks,
jockel tracks called psychological warfare. What it does is it takes any little element of your
campaigning against weakness. Any little element that you might slip on. You might see that.
Yeah. Sound like you're at there. You said that. Make slip on it. Oh.
May feel a little weak. When you wake up or when you're about to wake up, when you're about to get
up, when you wake up, you're about to get up. It's 430 and you're like dang, I'm going to press
this news. Don't worry. There's a track for that. You play that track, jockel. Give you pragmatic
advice on why you shouldn't hit this news. Same thing goes for skipping. You're work out,
same thing goes for skipping on your diet, slipping on your diet. Creative blah, progressive.
All these things is like tracks for a word. Jockel is telling you why you shouldn't do that. It's like,
hey, don't do that. You know, this is why this is why it's beneficial for you to continue all that stuff.
It's a good one. It helps 100% effective in spotting people when they need a little spot. If
then if you need a spot, sometimes you don't need a spot. Sometimes you're just getting after 100%.
100%. But that's a good one for that. You also on Amazon can get jockel white tea,
which is good. If you don't believe me, go read the reviews on there. I'll read some of them
again. I'll read a couple of them on here. But you can read them yourself. The reviews explain
that when you drink jockel white tea, you can deadlift 8,000 pounds at a minimum. So that's a guarantee.
People don't understand. It's guaranteed. Yeah. If you don't think, if you can't, I'll give you your
money back to the team. Yeah. Uh, they also got some books. You can get them anywhere. Really
way. Way the warrior kid. Thank you. Everyone that gives me feedback all the time. Kids that are
doing various things like studying, like reading the book, studying, doing jiu-jitsu, doing pull-ups,
swimming, competing, just all kinds of awesome stuff. Everything from figure skating to ballet,
to wrestling, seeing it all. Little warrior kids getting after it. That's a book for any
kid that you want to put on the proper path of discipline, of hard work. The next book,
the next warrior kid book, is coming out April 28th. I'll let you know when it pops up for pre-order.
Extreme ownership, the new addition is out. It's longer. It has a little new forward in it.
It's got some new pictures, colored pictures, by the way, colored. Oh, dang.
It's stepping it up. No, I don't like that. Oh, I know. Make them black and white.
Black and white only. That's how I roll. Yeah. Yeah. There's also some Q&A on there, which is the Q&A
that's in the new version is from this podcast, which means it's from you listeners. So thank you
for the questions. And also the new version, it's black. And it's flat black. Did you notice that?
Yeah. That makes it even better. It's regular black. Right. Well, what's regular black?
glossy. Oh, glossy. You hear that dog parking? Yeah. That's legit.
Savage. Yeah. There must be somebody invading the podcast space.
Yeah. You can get the the new version of Extreme ownership right now. Flat black.
Questions from the podcast, all that. Also, discipline equals freedom. Field manual.
So, um, this is book. It's not a normal book, right? We know that.
It's a book that when you if you give it to somebody, they don't feel like, oh, he just went
around the book. They don't feel like that. They think, because it's not normal. So the publisher knows
that, right? So they want an little tagline. And they sent me some, hey, we come up with some taglines.
And they gave me this tagline. Sure. Can I make fun of my publisher? Yes. Sounds like I'm going to
do that right now. So my publisher, they say, we're going to make it. We're going to have a little tagline.
You can tell you a book. And they said, well, you know, here's our tagline. This book makes
a great gift from a holiday season. It's not that like that, right? And they send me, because
because I always say, like, hey, don't be saying stuff about my stuff without asking me first.
Yeah. Because you guys will say dumb stuff about my cool stuff. And I like that.
So they said, it's book makes a great holiday gift. Whatever. And I said, no, when I thought about it,
for four seconds, and I wrote them back. And I said, use this. There's no better gift than the gift of
discipline. Boom. Factually, there's your tagline. So for your people in your life, that you don't want
to get them a stupid gift, like a neck tie or a belt or something else that they don't want or need,
sure. They need this book. The best gift you can give is the gift of discipline. So there you go.
That's a, hey, by the way, people keep asking me. And I keep telling everyone, everyone wants
the audio version of this book. And they say, when is it coming out? It's out. It's out.
The audio version of Displand equals freedom field manual. It's out right now. It's on iTunes.
It's on Amazon music. It's on Google Play. It's on other MP3 platforms. The reason we did that
is because if you put it on audible, audible, you can't pull it out as tracks and use it for a
alarm or use it to spot yourself if you get a moment of weakness, which this book is good for.
So that's where you can get the audio version. Beyond the books, beyond the podcast for
leadership training and execution with your business or your team, you can contact
our leadership consulting company. It's me. It's Lave Babin. It's J. B. To Know. It's Dave
Burke. You can email info at echelonfront.com. And if you have questions for us or you have answers
for us, we want to hear them both. You can communicate with us on the interwebs on Twitter,
on Instagram, and on Facebook, he bought Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Willink.
And to the service men and women worldwide right now, defending for you, thank you for your service
and for giving us the ability to do this podcast and to the families of those service men and
women that are supporting them from home. Thank you for your sacrifice day to day. It is much appreciated
and to the police law enforcement firefighters, paramedics, other first responders. Thank you
for doing what you're doing, which is keeping us safe here at home and answering the call
when it comes. And to everyone else, that's listening. Just remember that sure, you have a team.
You have friends and family and co-workers and colleagues and you have a support network and
you have people you can call and that's great, but don't count on them. Don't wait for them. Don't
assume that they are coming to the rescue. Take lead, take ownership, take action, get out there
and get after it. So until next time, this is Echo and Jocco.
Out.